






Agamar


Astrographical information

Region
Outer Rim Territories[1]


Sector
Lahara sector[1]


System
Mirgoshir system[2]


Grid square
M-5[3]


Trade routes
Braxant Run[3]Celanon Spur[3]



Physical information

Terrain
Forests[2]


Surface water
Bil Da'Gari[4]Crescent Sea[5]


Points of interest
Council Center[6]Tondatha[7]University of Agamar[6]


Flora
Binka[2]


Fauna
Agamarian beast[8]Mugruebe[7]



Societal information

Other species
Human[2]


Primary language(s)
Galactic Basic Standard[2]


Government
Agamarian Council[6]


Demonym
Agamarian[6]


Major cities
Calna Muun (capital)[6]


Affiliation
Infinite Empire[3]Galactic Republic[9]Confederacy of Independent Systems[9]Galactic Empire[7]New Republic[6]Yuuzhan Vong empire[1]Galactic Alliance[3]Fel Empire[3]Empire-in-exile[3]


[Source]


Agamar was an agriworld in the Mirgoshir system of the Lahara sector. At one time part of the Rakatan Infinite Empire and home to an underwater civilization, Agamar became part of the Galactic Republic prior to the New Sith Wars and later joined the Confederacy of Independent Systems shortly before the Clone Wars. The site of fighting between Republic and Separatist forces, it was once more in Republic hands by the end of the Clone Wars, and subsequently became part of the Galactic Empire. Resistance to Imperial rule led to the destruction of the small town of Tondatha as punishment, after which the Agamar Resistance joined the Alliance to Restore the Republic. Agamar, however, remained in Imperial hands for several more years, before eventually joining the New Republic. During the early stages of the Yuuzhan Vong War, Agamar took in refugees from worlds hit by the Yuuzhan Vong, but eventually fell to the invaders. By the Second Galactic Civil War, the world was once more under Imperial control, and remained part of the Fel Empire in the following decades. During the Second Imperial Civil War, Agamar was part of deposed Emperor Roan Fel's Empire-in-exile and served as the site of a meeting between Fel and the Jedi Council.

Agamar had a mostly Human population and was governed by the Agamarian Council in its capital city of Calna Muun. As something of a backwater planet, Agamar was not a well-known world. Among those who had heard of the planet, Agamarians were stereotyped as dumb hicks, though many natives of the world played important roles in both the Rebel Alliance and New Republic, most notably the New Republic general and Jedi Keyan Farlander.

Agamar was a small world,[7] located in the Mirgoshir system.[2] It was situated near the Mirgoshir hyperspace crossroads—[9] the intersection of the Braxant Run and Celanon Spur hyperlanes[3]—which eventually became a key route between the New Republic and Imperial Remnant.[10] Although one of 245 settled worlds in the Lahara sector,[2][11] its location within the Outer Rim Territories left it largely secluded from the rest of the galaxy[2] and, as a result, it was often regarded as a backwater world by many within the galactic community.[7]

A terrestrial world, Agamar's surface featured several landmasses separated by oceans,[2] including the Bil Da'Gari[4] and the Crescent Sea.[5] The climate was warm and dry,[6] though the planet had large expanses of arable land.[1] Over time, natural bridges had developed on the planet's surface.[12] Much of the land was covered with forests of binka trees[2]—these trees, native to Agamar, grew regularly spaced, and as such became popular amongst youngsters to maneuver repulsorcraft through at high speeds.[7] The world developed a reputation as a rough planet where it was difficult to survive,[13] yet despite its reputation, those who visited Agamar would later comment on its natural beauty.[7]

Among the planet's indigenous fauna was the mugruebe, a small mammal roughly twice the size of a womp rat.[7] Often farmed at ranches,[2] the creatures were the main ingredient in the local dish, mugruebe stew, together with roots and bark from the planet's trees. Although mugruebe stew was popular among the Agamarian population, it remained largely unpopular throughout the galaxy.[7] During the years surrounding the Clone Wars, however, at least one Agamarian dish was served as far away as Dex's Diner on Coruscant. The meatless slider included a patty made from Agamarian soybeans topped with a slice of binka fruit and mugruebe spit-sauce.[14] Other fauna included a species of quadrupeds with four eyes, thick tails and bone protrusions rising from a flared crest at the rear of the head. These creatures were used as beasts of burden by Agamarian farmers.[8]

Around 30,000 BBY, during the Pre-Republic era, the Rakatans spread out from their homeworld of Lehon and established the Infinite Empire, which would dominate much of the galaxy for almost five thousand years. Agamar was one of many worlds brought under Rakatan control during this time. With the collapse of the Empire in 25,200 BBY, the Rakata retreated to their homeworld, leaving little trace as to how and why they left.[3] At some point during Agamar's early history, an underwater civilization existed on the floor of the Crescent Sea. This civilization was long-extinct by the time of the Great Galactic War.[5]

Though located in an area of the galaxy which was not fully explored until between 3000 and 1000 BBY,[3] Agamar itself was known to the Galactic Republic as early as the Great Galactic War.[15] Beginning with the Sith Empire's surprise attack on the Republic in 3681 BBY,[16] the Great Galactic War saw the Sith quickly seize control of several Outer Rim systems, winning numerous victories over Republic forces, including one battle fought in the forests of Agamar.[15] A decade after the end of the Great Galactic War, Agamar was represented in the Galactic Senate by the Human Oranda.[17] Around this time, Agamar suffered from severe droughts which revealed the ruins of its former underwater civilization on the Crescent Sea floor. The discoverer attracted many scavengers to Agamar in the hopes of looting its treasures.[5] During the Galactic War between the Republic and the Empire, a community of Agamarian farmers were driven insane by underground signals that seemed to be Rakatan in origin.[18] Following the end of the war, Agamar remained under Republic control during the New Sith Wars between 2000 and 1000 BBY.[3]

At some point during the Old Republic era, the planet suffered an infestation of Lyran bloodslugs. The parasites left their homeworld of Lyran IV when a local crime lord used one of them to infect a visiting spacer. The spacer took his cargo of grain to trade on Agamar, where the parasite was able to multiply in the grain-rich starport. The creatures soon infested the starport, causing the deaths of over 100 victims, the largest bloodslug infestation on record.[19] New Agamar, also settled prior to the Clone Wars, was likely named after Agamar.[20]

By 33 BBY,[21] the planet, and the Mirgoshir system, was administered by Governor Challep and already had a reputation as a backwater world. The planet's starfighter defenses were poor, with their starfighters unable to compete with the more advanced Z-95 Headhunters. They were also forced to rely on mercenaries to pilot the ships, and most mercenaries at the time spent a few months in Agamar's service.[22]

Challep, however, was committed to building an advanced planetary defense force, and set about replacing the system's starfighter contingent. The world purchased new starfighters, including Z-95s and at least 100 Vulture droid starfighters, along with other weapons technologies, including at least two Hornet-class carriers. They also attempted to hire additional pilots for the new ships. One such pilot was Dren Melne, a Naboo who served in Bravo Squadron of the Naboo Royal Space Fighter Corps, who was paid over 100,000 credits for his services.[22]

The Naboo's N-1 starfighters and N-X Police Cruisers represented the sort of technology Challep sought, and the Agamarians made at least three attempts to purchase some of the starfighters, only to be rejected each time by Queen Padmé Amidala's Royal Advisory Council. Melne convinced Challep that even buying the parts direct from Nubia Star Drives, Incorporated would not allow them to replicate the technology, so Challep organized a raid on the Naboo system. Captain Sorran would lead the mission as two carriers attacked Station TFP-9 to draw out the Naboo defenses. After verifying their capabilities, Melne would turn on his own people to help the Agamarians disable some of the fighters to be returned to Agamar for study by engineers, with a view to replicating the technology.[22]

However, the mission went awry when Naboo fighter pilot Essara Till, together with Echo Flight, destroyed one of the carriers and forced Sorran to withdraw. Before fleeing, Sorran had Melne killed to prevent the Agamarians from learning the truth. Governor Challep denied any Agamarian involvement in the incident and no significant links were found between Agamar and Melne. The money placed in his account could not be tracked to its source. Even so, the Naboo requested that the Galactic Senate investigate the matter.[22]

In about 31 BBY,[23] Maegyn, the head chef of the Golden Cochlea restaurant on the planet Cularin, placed an order with Mothven Star Trading, to send some binka tree bark from Agamar to his restaurant.[24]

By 22 BBY, the planet was represented in the Galactic Senate by Tyreca Bremack, senator for the Lahara sector. Towards the end of the Separatist Crisis, on 22:4:4 BBY, high taxation led Senator Bremack to announce the sector's secession from the Republic.[11] Bremack subsequently brought the Lahara sector into the growing Confederacy of Independent Systems, taking Agamar with it.[9]

Later in 22 BBY, war broke out between the Republic and the Separatists. Agamar was drawn into the Clone Wars in the month following the Battle of Geonosis as the two sides fought a campaign for control of the Mirgoshir system.[9] Early fighting in the system went against the Republic, despite the efforts of their Jedi pilots, and the Republic forces eventually withdrew from the system. Around this time, Agamar was one of several worlds to be struck in devastating attacks by the ancient Force Harvester, recently uncovered by Count Dooku on Raxus Prime. The Force Harvester was intended to power the Dark Reaper, which Dooku's forces were excavating on Thule. Later that month, Republic forces struck at Thule and, during the subsequent battle, the superweapon was destroyed by Anakin Skywalker. Once Separatist forces withdrew from the Thurra system, the Grand Army of the Republic prepared to move back into the Mirgoshir system, in an attempt to secure Agamar.[26] Four months after this attempt began, Separatist armies were still fighting in the Mirgoshir system and unable to reinforce their comrades commanded by Shogar Tok on Brentaal IV.[27]

At some point during the Mirgoshir campaign, as Republic forces clashed with Separatists on Agamar, the heavy footfalls of Republic walkers caused the natural bridges they were crossing to collapse beneath them, resulting in many vehicles and soldiers being lost. This disaster prompted Kuat Drive Yards to team up with Mekuun to design the Unstable Terrain Artillery Transport, which the Republic used successfully on worlds including Mygeeto and Cato Neimoidia.[12]

In 21 BBY, Sergeant Kal Skirata of the Grand Army of the Republic, together with the Advanced Recon Commando Null-11, traveled to Agamar to purchase the Mon Calamari DeepWater-class light freighter Aay'han from a Rodian merchant in Calna Muun, for use in a mission to locate the Kaminoan scientist Ko Sai.[4]

Around 20 BBY,[28] following the victory of King Ramsis Dendup and the Royal Onderon Militia over Separatist forces under the command of the super tactical droid General Kalani at the Battle of Onderon, Count Dooku ordered Kalani to withdraw his army and fall back to Agamar.[25]

Following the end of the Clone Wars and the Declaration of a New Order, Agamar became part of the newly formed Galactic Empire's Oversector Outer.[3] The world came to be seen as unimportant by the new galactic government and officials from the Empire rarely visited the world, though on at least one occasion approximately five years into the reign of Emperor Palpatine, a small Imperial flotilla passed through the Lahara sector, stopping in orbit of Agamar and dispatching landing craft to the planet.[7]

However, the Empire struggled to maintain complete control over distant worlds in the Outer Rim and, over time, resistance groups began to develop on many disenchanted Rim worlds.[2] Agamar was one such world, and the Agamar Resistance formed[7] by 1 BBY.[29] Based mainly out of Calna Muun,[2] the movement attracted many who were opposed to Imperial rule but saw little opportunity to have a genuine effect on galactic affairs—despite Agamar's previous military buildup, only a handful of functioning Z-95s remained[7]—and stayed outside of the Alliance to Restore the Republic.[30]

Even so, news of insurgents on the remote world eventually reached the Empire, and an Imperial-class Star Destroyer was dispatched to Agamar to end the insurrection. As an assault craft descended into the atmosphere over the small town of Tondatha, the Imperial commander announced that the inhabitants had been found guilty of sedition. The penalty for their supposed crime was severe—the Imperials poured turbolaser and concussion missile fire down on the settlement, leaving the buildings as smoking ruins and many residents killed or seriously injured. So great was the level of destruction that the survivors abandoned the ruins rather than rebuilding.[7]

The Resistance was shaken by the massacre at Tondatha, but more determined than ever to find a way to strike back at the Empire.[2] Several months after the destruction of Tondatha,[7] the Mon Calamari Star Cruiser Independence arrived at Agamar, bringing Mon Mothma, former Chandrilan senator and current Chief of State of the Rebel Alliance, for a secret meeting to persuade the Resistance to join the Alliance. Around 200 members of the Resistance attended the meeting, held in an abandoned warehouse in Calna Muun, during which Mothma delivered a speech stressing the Empire's many atrocities and circulated the A Call to Reason pamphlet to persuade the attendees of the need to make a stand. Mon Mothma's visit had the desired result, and several of those present joined the crew of the Independence immediately, while Rebel advisors remained on Agamar to assist the Resistance.[30]

Following the destruction of Alderaan later that year, a refugee camp was established on Agamar for Alderaanians who had lost their home in the disaster. Through this refugee camp, the Rebel Alliance acquired several new members, including Kira Lar, who made the journey to Agamar after hearing the news in the hopes of contacting the Rebellion.[31]

Rebel agitation did not, however, give the Alliance control of the planet, and Agamar long remained part of Imperial Space. During the hunt for Warlord Zsinj in 7 ABY, the Agamarian Captain Choday Hrakness was given command of the CR90 corvette Night Caller, after it was captured by Wraith Squadron. Shortly afterwards, the Wraiths took advantage of the Agamarian stereotype on a mission to infiltrate the Imperial world of Storinal, when Garik Loran, Wedge Antilles, and Myn Donos disguised themselves as three yokel brothers from Agamar on a wife-hunting expedition.[13]

In 8 ABY, after the defeat of Zsinj, New Republic Supreme Commander Admiral Gial Ackbar led a campaign against the Imperial Remnant. Launching from Palanhi in the Inner Rim Territories, Ackbar's forces captured Ord Mantell before bringing Agamar under New Republic control. By 9 ABY, Agamar had become a New Republic stronghold. However, after Grand Admiral Mitth'raw'nuruodo returned from the Unknown Regions to lead the Imperial Remnant, Agamar was one of many worlds recaptured by the Empire as Thrawn's forces advanced on the Core Worlds.[3]

Agamar continued to change hands during the following years, falling out of Imperial control by 10 ABY, only to be brought back into the Imperial Remnant after Admiral Gilad Pellaeon became Supreme Commander in 12 ABY.[3] That year, Agamar served as a rendezvous point where Admiral Pellaeon mustered his fleet in preparation for an attack on Orinda. While the Imperials took on supplies and awaited Pellaeon's arrival, they deployed Immobilizer 418 cruisers to prevent passing traffic from spying on them. The Interdictors' gravity wells soon caused a New Republic ship transporting the captured renegade Jedi Dal Konur to Yavin 4 to be pulled out of hyperspace, though they were able to escape. Around the same time, a medical quarantine of Dathomir led to ships being diverted to Agamar, as well as Bandomeer.[32] When Pellaeon launched his attack on Orinda, he left the Star Dreadnought Megador to defend Agamar from a possible New Republic attack from Celanon or Ithor. In 17 ABY, after a failed Imperial offensive, Pellaeon's forces were driven back to Bastion and Agamar once more came under New Republic control.[33]

Agamar remained part of the New Republic by the time of the Yuuzhan Vong War. In 25 ABY, as the Yuuzhan Vong closed in on Republic space, a University of Agamar xenoarchaeological survey team, led by Doctor Anki Pace, discovered the mummified remains of Mongei Shai on Bimmiel. When the University administrators lost contact with the team, they asked the Jedi to investigate. Corran Horn and Ganner Rhysode located the survey team, but were forced to evacuate them back to Agamar after the discovery of more Yuuzhan Vong on the planet.[6]

Around the same time, former New Republic Chief of State Leia Organa Solo, having failed to make the Senate accept the threat posed by the Yuuzhan Vong, decided to warn Outer Rim worlds directly. Her first stop was Agamar where, together with New Republic scientist Danni Quee, she stressed the imminent threat posed to all worlds in the Outer Rim and urged them to combine their forces. Organa Solo's impassioned plea was warmly received by the Agamarian Council, but powerful individuals within Agamarian society sought to rebuild their world rather than risk their people in another war. Though the Council could not commit to military action, they did agree to her request to take in refugees from worlds already attacked by the Yuuzhan Vong. Not long after Organa Solo's visit, the Agamarians sent every available ship to assist in the evacuation of Dubrillion. Several were lost in a subsequent attack by the Yuuzhan Vong.[6] Agamar's large amounts of land made it a natural choice for the sudden increase in population, and it was soon serving as a clearing station for refugees from other worlds, including Dantooine.[1] Nevertheless, the world quickly became overstretched with the influx of refugees[6] and the New Republic started organizing colonies to transport them further towards the Core Worlds.[10] As the extragalactic invaders continued to approach, the New Republic eventually began to evacuate the Agamarians themselves, transporting them to transit points including Gyndine.[1] The price of passage from Agamar quickly rose, and many independent captains took their ships there to make a profit from the mass evacuation.[10]

Agamar's location on a hyperlane linking the Republic to its new allies in the Imperial Remnant made it an important world to hold and, while the refugee operation was ongoing, Admiral Traest Kre'fey utilized it as a staging area for New Republic forces. However, Agamar lay directly in the Yuuzhan Vong's path, and as the Republic realized that it couldn't hold both Agamar and Ithor, Chief of State Borsk Fey'lya made the decision to all but abandon Agamar, instructing Kre'fey to focus on defending Ithor.[1] Deign Lian, serving under Shedao Shai, was given the task of planning a major assault on Ithor, after first leading a feint at Agamar. They would then return to complete the invasion of Agamar.[10]

Significant numbers of Agamarians had been evacuated by the time the world fell to the Yuuzhan Vong. Even so, Agamarians were among the groups hit hardest by the invaders. The abandonment of Agamar, along with other worlds in the Outer Rim, caused some unrest within the New Republic. Though it was justified as necessary to protect more strategically important worlds, there were many who suggested that it was the worlds that lacked strong representation in the Senate that were left to fall.[1]

At some point between the end of the Yuuzhan Vong War in 29 ABY and the start of the Second Galactic Civil War in 40 ABY, Agamar once more came under Imperial control. By 130 ABY, the Empire had taken control of much of the galaxy from the Galactic Alliance. After Dark Lord of the Sith Darth Krayt attempted to depose Emperor Roan Fel, the Empire split into two, with Agamar becoming part of Fel's Empire-in-exile.[3]

In 137 ABY, Fel's Empire formed an alliance with the surviving forces of the Galactic Alliance to oppose the Sith. With rumors of Krayt's death, the Jedi Order felt the time had come for them too to join the fight and Agamar was chosen for a meeting between the Jedi Council and Fel. News of the rendezvous soon reached the Imperial regent, Morlish Veed, who ordered Moff Rulf Yage to lead an assault on the meeting.[34] The Fel loyalist Moff Nyna Calixte traveled to Agamar to warn the allies, landing her starfighter at a distant farm so as not to alarm either party. Paying a native farmer to hide her vessel, Calixte proceeded to the meeting aboard a borrowed Agamarian beast, disguised in the farmer's cloak and hat. The Imperial arrived at the meeting site shortly after Fel reached an agreement with Jedi Master K'Kruhk to coordinate future attacks against the Sith. However, the First Sith Imperial Strikeforce, led by Yage's Pellaeon-class Star Destroyer, the War Hammer, had already emerged from hyperspace in orbit of Agamar and engaged Fel's own Star Destroyer, the Dauntless.[8]

While the battle continued in orbit, the Jedi and Fel's Imperial Knights were soon confronted by a Sith strike team. Working together, the two groups were able to see Fel safely back to his shuttle, though Fel's daughter, Princess Marasiah Fel, was captured by the Sith during the evacuation. Despite taking heavy damage, the Dauntless held off the attacking Sith-Imperial force long enough for Fel's shuttle to clear the planet, but was destroyed soon after.[35]

The Agamarian settlers were mostly Human,[2] though at least some other species were present on the planet, including Rodians,[4] and Galactic Basic Standard was the planet's primary language.[2] Most inhabitants of the simple agriworld made a living as farmers, merchants and craftspeople,[7] and relied on each other's help to prosper.[6] Their rustic lifestyle necessitated a degree of stubbornness and durability, and as a result, Agamarians developed a reputation as unsophisticated rubes, famous for their apparent stupidity. This reputation developed during the days of the Old Republic and continued throughout the planet's time within the Galactic Empire, with them cast as stupid in many jokes told throughout the galaxy.[13] Agamar's ruling body was the Agamarian Council, whose delegates sat in Calna Muun and were led by a speaker.[6] During the time of the Old Republic, Agamar had a governor[22] and was represented in the Senate by the senator for the Lahara sector.[11] During Agamar's time in the New Republic, it was represented directly in the Senate.[36]

Agamar's most famous resident was Keyan Farlander. Farlander grew up on a mugruebe ranch in Tondatha[2] during the early years of the New Order. Farlander was returning home from Calna Muun and saw the Imperial assault ship descending on his hometown. Arriving in Tondatha just as the Imperials opened fire, Farlander raced to his home, which was struck by enemy fire moments later. Though he survived with only minor injuries,[7] his mother and father[2] were killed and his sister Kitha was badly burned. Following the massacre, Farlander moved to Calna Muun and eventually joined the Agamar Resistance. When he later attended Mon Mothma's rally, he was inspired to join the Alliance and began a new life training aboard the Independence as a starfighter pilot. A natural pilot with an affinity for the Force, Farlander fought in many battles, including the assault on the first Death Star,[7] the evacuation of Echo Base on Hoth and the Battle of Endor. He later trained as a Jedi[37] and served as a general during the Yuuzhan Vong War, playing a role in several battles including the Battle of Ebaq[38] and the Recapture of Coruscant.[39] News of Farlander's actions reached his homeworld and the people of Agamar were proud of their world's most famous son.[2]

Farlander was not the only Agamarian to join the Alliance as a starfighter pilot—'Ndranth Poussan, Sunnar Jan-lo and Breth Gart also joined the Rebellion after Mon Mothma's speech. Poussan had not yet completed training when a shortage of pilots led to him seeing action in the Battle of Brigia. He was killed during the battle when his fighter collided with a TIE/LN starfighter. Gart, who was only sixteen upon joining the Alliance, twice failed in his bid to become a pilot due to disorientation syndrome, before finally succeeding on his third attempt. He was killed shortly after in a freak collision with the EF76 Nebulon-B escort frigate Priam during a Rebel attack on Kalla VII. Jan-lo served as a pilot before being injured during an attack on the Imperial-class Star Destroyer Intrepid and later began an extended assignment with Alliance Intelligence. All four had previously been involved in the Agamar Resistance, under the leadership of B'ante Hatcher, who was a strong advocate of the Resistance's eventual membership in the Rebel Alliance.[7]

Later, Choday Hrakness pursued a successful career with the New Republic, rising to the rank of captain. Rather than being embarrassed by the Agamarian stereotype, while in command of the Night Caller, he helped Garik Loran to develop the stereotypical Agamarian character the latter would use to infiltrate Storinal. This stereotype cast members of Wraith Squadron as poor yokels, dressed in rough ponchos made from a heavy brown cloth, with shirts and pants made from the same material in a lighter weave, and completed by broad-rimmed hats. Beyond their appearance, the group played up to the reputation of foolish Agamarians through their pretense of searching for wives, explaining that the only half a dozen attractive Agamarian women were already married.[13]

Similarly, Captain Rimsen's commendable service record saw him rise to command of the New Republic Victory I-class Star Destroyer Corusca Fire by the start of the Yuuzhan Vong War. Rimsen noticed unusual orders that effectively ensured that New Republic forces did not patrol near Dubrillion and Belkadan. When he learned of Leia Organa Solo's warning about the Yuuzhan Vong during a conversation with family, he surmised that Agamar was in danger and New Republic High Command was prepared to sacrifice his homeworld to prevent mass panic. Defying the orders of Chief of State Borsk Fey'lya, Rimsen took the Corusca Fire to Agamar in time to assist Traest Kre'fey in the Battle of Dantooine.[1]

Agamar's capital was Calna Muun,[6] which was also the largest city on the planet[2] and referred to as the "Big City" by the Agamarians.[7] Located on the coast, the city served as the planet's main starport[2] and also had a harbor from which tourists could take rides along the floor of the Bil Da'Gari ocean in transparent submersibles.[4] The small town of Tondatha was not located far from Calna Muun, on the other side of one of the world's many binka forests. Despite its proximity to Calna Muun, Tondatha was considered a fairly backwater town by even the native Agamarians, including some of its own residents.[7]

The Agamarian Council was housed in the Council Center in Calna Muun. Due to the Center's close proximity to the sea, the ocean had a clear influence on the architecture. Office balconies offered a view of the ocean to the north of the city, while the council chamber itself had an oceanic motif. The wooden floors, wall panels and furnishing were examples of high quality Agamarian craftsmanship, with the desks for Council delegates rising out of the floor like waves, leaping fish attached to the floor by wooden streams of water, and wooden birds fixed to the walls and ceiling by the tips of their wings. Even the speaker's podium was designed to resemble a stone sticking out of the waves around the base. Elsewhere, the high-ceilinged hallways were open to help keep the Center cool in the warm climate. Where pillars and archways divided the corridor into segments, holographic art depicted Agamarian history and culture.[6]

Agamar was also home to the University of Agamar, which boasted one of the largest xenoarchaeology departments in both the Old and New Republics. The University was involved in most large excavations throughout the galaxy, including such important sites as the Jedi ruins on Ossus.[40]

Agamar was created during the development of the 1993 LucasArts video game Star Wars: X-Wing to serve as the homeworld of the game's player character, Keyan Farlander. The planet was not actually established in the game itself, but in Rusel DeMaria's accompanying novella, The Farlander Papers, which told Farlander's story.[30] However, the original floppy disk version of the game used "Agamar" as one of the copy protection codes.[41] Farlander's story continued in X-Wing: The Official Strategy Guide, also by DeMaria, which contained more information about Agamar.[7]

Much of Agamar's history was established in later sources. The planet has been referenced in several guidebooks, including entries in The Essential Guide to Planets and Moons, the Star Wars Encyclopedia and The Complete Star Wars Encyclopedia.[2][42][43] Agamar has also featured in narrative works, including Dark Tide I: Onslaught and Dark Tide II: Ruin, part of The New Jedi Order series of novels,[6][10] and the Monster arc of the Star Wars: Legacy comic series.[8]

The Star Wars Insider 23 article "LucasArts Update: The Creation Story" by Sue Seserman, released in fall 1994, included some early plot details about the LucasArts video game Star Wars: Dark Forces, which was due to be released the following year. The article mentions a Rebel base on Agamar as one of the newly created locations which would be visited by the player character, Kyle Katarn.[44] Agamar did not appear in the final game, however, and the only Rebel base visited by Katarn is instead on the planet Talay.[45]

