






							Face
							
						



							Helmet
							
						


















Am


Descriptive information

Species
Human (clone)[1]


Gender
Female[1]


Pronouns
She/her[1]


Hair color
Blond[2]


Eye color
Purple[2]


Skin color
Light[2]



Family information

Sibling(s)
Karre[1]



Chronological & political information

Affiliation(s)
T-Empire[1]


[Source]


Am was a Force-sensitive human female clone who, like her twin brother Karre, was created through advanced cloning technology and the dark side of the Force. The two were raised from birth to become Dark Lords of a remnant of the Galactic Empire known as the T-Empire. At some point after the Battle of Exegol of 35 ABY, Am and Karre were on board a Gemini-class Star Destroyer as the final adjustments to its hyper cannon superweapon were being completed. When Am gave the order to fire the hyper cannon, she learned that its power core had been stolen, preventing it from charging. She quickly realized that Karre had stolen it and confronted him in a hangar as he tried to escape with it. With the help of his droid R-DUO, Karre stole a T-X-wing starfighter, which he piloted out of the Star Destroyer. Before he could escape, Am exited to the surface of the Star Destroyer and used the Force to pull Karre and the power core back to her. Both twins used the Force to fight for control of the core, which eventually shattered to reveal the kyber crystal within it, which soon also shattered and exploded. 

In the aftermath of the explosion, Am and Karre both saw a vision of Am's death as a result of her using the crystal. Karre revealed that he had previously seen the vision and explained that he had stolen the kyber crystal to save Am. Karre warned her not to use the crystal's power, but she ignored him and placed it into her armor before attacking him with her lightwhips. Karre fought back, but Am knocked him off the Star Destroyer into space, where he was caught on his X-wing by R-DUO. As a result of her attacks, Am's armor overloaded and she lost control of it. To save her, Karre used the power of the X-wing's hyperdrive and destroyed the kyber crystal with his lightsaber. After he jumped to hyperspace, Am was left floating unconscious among debris from the Star Destroyer until she was rescued by her protocol droid, B-2ON. 

Am was a Force-sensitive human female clone who, like her twin brother Karre, was[1] secretly[3] created through advanced cloning technology and the dark side of the Force. The two were raised from birth to become Dark Lords of a remnant of the Galactic Empire known as the T-Empire,[1] who planned for them to rule the galaxy.[4] During the process of their creation, the twins were watched by Sith cultists.[2] Am and Karre were loyally served by the astromech droid R-DUO and the protocol droid B-2ON,[5] the latter of which also acted as a nanny, teacher, and companion to Am.[1] At some point while the twins were standing with a number of the cultists, Karre saw a vision of Am's death as a result of her using the power of a kyber crystal.[6]

At some point after the Battle of Exegol of 35 ABY,[7] Am and B-2ON were in her throne room aboard a Gemini-class Star Destroyer. The droid reported to her that the final adjustments to the Star Destroyer were being made and that they were waiting for her command. B-2ON expressed[2] his[1] joy that he would be able to witness Am and Karre complete their mission. Am responded that their journey had just begun and that she and Karre would bring order to the galaxy. B-2ON then reported that the Star Destroyer's planet-destroying hyper cannon would soon be operational and would be at full strength when it had finished charging. He then expressed his concerns about the effects that the twins' dark armor—which used the same dark energy as the hyper cannon—could have on their bodies. Am replied that she was prepared to sacrifice everything for the dark side and then ordered the hyper cannon to be readied to attack the New Republic.[2]

However, before the superweapon could be fired, a T-Imperial crew member reported that the reactor core's power source had been stolen, preventing the hyper cannon from being charged. B-2ON was surprised, as only Am and Karre could access the reactor core chamber, but Am looked across the ship to see that Karre's throne was empty and realized that he had been the one who had stolen the power core.[2]

Am ordered a group of T-Stormtroopers to stop Karre, but he defeated them and made it into a hangar where he planned to escape. Before he could, Am entered the hangar with B-2ON, a larger group of T-Stormtroopers, and two All Terrain Scout Transports. As she approached, Karre signaled for R-DUO, who was accompanying him, to sneak away. Am demanded that Karre return the power core, telling him she would forget what he had done if he did so. Karre refused, and removed his helmet and destroyed his dark armor. Am inquired about Karre's motive, asking if he intended to give the power core to the Republic, but Karre refused to answer, saying Am would not understand. Am then decided to take the power core back by force, igniting two of her lightsabers and preparing to attack Karre. Before she could, R-DUO powered on a stolen T-X-wing starfighter and fired on Am. She was able to project a Force barrier, but the blasts deflected into her own forces and Karre was able to escape to the X-wing.[2]

As Karre piloted his starfighter away, Am exited to the surface of the Star Destroyer and used the Force to pull the power core to her. She was eventually able to pull both Karre and the power core out of the X-wing and onto the surface of the Star Destroyer. As Karre fell, Am pulled the power core out of his grasp, but before it reached her, Karre recovered and began pulling it back toward him. Both twins struggled for control of the power core until it shattered, revealing the kyber crystal within it. Upon seeing the crystal, Am commented on its beauty and power and said that it would become a beacon of hope for the galaxy. Karre responded that it would only bring despair.[2]

Am and Karre continued fighting for the kyber crystal and both began striking it with Force lightning, causing the crystal to resonate and then shatter, sending Am's lightning back at her and destroying her helmet. It then exploded and both twins were able to see the vision of Am's death that only Karre had previously seen. Karre explained that he had seen the vision and revealed that he had stolen the kyber crystal to prevent Am's death, saying he knew that she was too stubborn to have listened if Karre had told her what he had seen. Am responded by telling Karre she did not fear death and reminded him of the purpose of their birth.[2]

Ignoring Karre's warning to not use the kyber crystal, Am placed a large fragment of it into her dark armor. Four mechanical limbs sprouted from her armor and emitted dark energy, forming long lightwhips. She ignited her other two lightsabers, which also became lightwhips, and then began attacking Karre, telling him that if he wanted to save her, then he should risk his life trying. As Am continued to attack Karre, he ran and took cover. Am launched another attack that destroyed his cover, but her lightwhips became wrapped around Karre's own lightsaber. He then sliced the energy beams of Am's weapons and she returned all six to standard lightsabers.[2]

Karre then attacked Am by leaping and significantly extending the length of his lightsaber blade. She blocked the attack and kicked at him with a lightsaber-like weapon in her heel, which Karre dodged. Karre leaped at Am again, but she again blocked his attack and then forced him back until she was able to launch a dark energy-powered attack that knocked Karre off the surface of the Star Destroyer and into space, where he was caught on his X-wing by R-DUO.[2]

As a result of using too much power from the kyber crystal, Am's armor overloaded and she lost control of it, causing her to be constricted by dark energy. Karre saw her and realized that if he did not destroy the kyber crystal, she would die, just as he saw in his vision. He was unsure if he had enough power to do so, but agreed to R-DUO's suggestion of using the X-wing's hyperdrive. R-DUO piloted the starfighter toward Am while Karre stood on the outside of it and ignited his lightsaber, causing several massive beams of various colors to appear and then coalesce into a single larger beam.[2]

As the X-wing approached Am, Karre's lightsaber cut through the Star Destroyer until it reached her. Despite what was happening to her, Am blocked Karre's blade and screamed at him that their life's mission would be lost if the crystal was destroyed. Karre replied that was not true, telling her not to live for someone else and that as long as she was alive, she would be free to choose her destiny. He then ordered R-DUO to activate the hyperdrive, which gave Karre enough power to push past Am's lightsabers. Karre's lightsaber briefly narrowed as it destroyed the kyber crystal before returning to its full size to finish cutting through the Star Destroyer as his X-wing jumped to hyperspace.[2]

After Karre's X-wing made its jump, Am's armor was destroyed and she was left floating unconscious among the the debris from the Star Destroyer until B-2ON arrived to rescue her. Karre's X-wing later came out of hyperspace and crashed on[2] the planet[8] Tatooine.[1] After waking on top of his crashed starfighter, Karre told R-DUO that they would find Am and understand the purpose of their creation, and that he knew she was alive.[2]

Am was a human female clone with purple eyes, blond hair, and light skin. She embraced her origin and the purpose of her creation, and her rage and the strength of her conviction gave her power.[1] Am was stubborn and devoted to the dark side, willing to risk her life for it and her purpose.[2] She struggled to find the right balance.[9]

Am was created with advanced cloning technology, allowing her to survive in outer space unaided, and was scientifically designed to channel power, allowing her to use the Force.[1] She was capable of creating a Force barrier and using telekinesis, being able to stop a starfighter with the Force.[2] Am was more powerful than Karre, but was still defeated by him. Although she wielded the dark side, Am was not a Sith and was not trained in the Sith traditions.[1]

Am wore a suit of prototype dark armor, which had a helmet, cape, and four mechanical limbs that could wield lightsabers. It was powered by dark energy. She wielded six red-bladed lightsabers, which she could convert to lightwhips, and had another weapon in her heel. Am wore black clothing under her armor, which was ripped when her armor was destroyed. She also wore a black headband and black earrings. Am had a throne room aboard the Gemini-class Star Destroyer.[2]

Am first appeared in "THE TWINS," a short film written by Hiromi Wakabayashi, directed by Hiroyuki Imaishi, and released as part of the first volume of the non-canon Star Wars: Visions series. The animated short, produced by Studio Trigger,[2] was released on Disney+ on September 22, 2021.[10] Prior to the short's release, Am was introduced in a video uploaded to the official Star Wars YouTube channel on July 3, 2021.[11] She was then identified in a StarWars.com article on August 17 of that year. Am was voiced by Ryoko Shiraishi in the original Japanese version of the short and by Alison Brie in the English dub.[12] The soundtrack for the short, which was composed by Michiru Ōshima[13] and released for streaming on October 15, 2021,[14] included a track titled "Anthem of Imperial (Am's Theme)."[13]

During the auditions for the role, Imaishi thought it was important to choose someone who felt like an older sister. During her audition, Shiraishi was asked to scream multiple times, then came back and was asked to scream louder. She thought screaming loudly and showing power was important, so she worked hard on her screams in her performance, which she was exhausted by. While at the dubbing site, Junya Enoki, who voiced Karre, heard Shiraishi screaming for a long time and thought it must have been difficult for her. He was impressed by her screams when watching the finished episode.[15]

Am was designed by Shigeto Koyama, who explained that while designing Am and Karre, he did not consider whether they were good or evil and instead visualized the core of the characters. Of the designs in "THE TWINS," Am was the least influenced by classic Star Wars designs. Instead, she was influenced by the energy and fashion of Trigger's other movies, such as their[1] 2019[16] film Promare,[1] which was also directed by Imaishi,[4] as well as Japanese tokusatsu heroes such as Kamen Rider and Ultraman. In addition to Trigger's aesthetic, Am's design combines elements from the armor used by Sith Lord Darth Vader and classic anime details.[9] The hilt of Am's lightsabers were the inverse of Karre's hilt, which itself was inspired by the lightsaber used by[1] the Jedi[8] Anakin Skywalker and his son Luke Skywalker.[1]

The duel between the twins was inspired by the battle of Gojo Ohashi, a Japanese Heian period legend in which the warrior-monk Saitō Musashibō Benkei met the young Minamoto Yoshitsune on Gojo Ohashi bridge. Although Benkei was more powerful, Yoshitune won their battle. Similarly, Am was more powerful than Karre, but she was still defeated by him.[1] Imaishi planned the fight in his head, saying that he had a stock of fight scene ideas in his head and picked the ones that were best for Star Wars.[17] Am and Karre are similar to a flipped version of the twins Leia and Luke. Twins are a classic Star Wars theme, but the short subverts the motif by following twins aligned with the dark side.[4]

When Am's armor sprouted its mechanical arms, it was accompanied by a tone described by Sound Designer David W. Collins as a "Grievous/Kylo cocktail", as it blended the effects that accompanied the lightsabers used by General Grievous and[18] First Order warlord[19] Kylo Ren. This information was included in a StarWars.com article published on September 21, 2021, but the article incorrectly described the tone as accompanying Karre's armor.[18] The error was repeated in "Star Wars: Visions Season One Companion," an article published in the 210th issue of the Star Wars Insider magazine[20] on May 3, 2022.[21]

