

Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country

FLM 06, TOS 6


Release date: 6 December 1991


← 6th of 14 Star Trek films →


← 216th of 949 released in all →







Screenplay by
Nicholas Meyer & Denny Martin Flinn


Story by
Leonard Nimoy and Lawrence Konner & Mark Rosenthal


Directed by
Nicholas Meyer


Produced by
Steven-Charles Jaffe & Ralph Winter


In-universe date
← 9521.6–9529.1 (2293) →


Podcast
ML: "Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country"








"The battle for peace has begun."

An interstellar cataclysm cripples the Klingon Empire's homeworld, leading to their Chancellor seeking peace with the Federation. But covert acts attempt to thwart the peace process with the assassination of the Klingon Chancellor. With Captain James T. Kirk and Dr. Leonard McCoy as the prime suspects, the Starships Enterprise-A and Excelsior must attempt to uncover the truth before the conspirators can plunge the Federation and Klingon Empire into fullscale war!

An explosion erupts, creating a massive subspace shock wave.

Aboard the USS Excelsior, Captain Hikaru Sulu takes a sip of tea, reads a report handed to him by his science officer Dimitri Valtane, and records his log:

Suddenly, red alert klaxons sound on the bridge as the subspace shockwave reaches the Excelsior, throwing Sulu and his crew to the deck. Sulu orders helmsman Lojur to turn Excelsior into the wave and the ship clears the disturbance with no serious damage. At his post, Valtane locates the origin of the shockwave – Praxis, a Klingon moon, which Sulu notes is the Empire's key energy production facility. Sulu orders communications officer Janice Rand to hail the moon and offer their assistance, then asks Valtane for more data. Valtane, perplexed, says that he can confirm Praxis's location... but not its existence. An image appears on the viewscreen: Praxis, or rather barely half of it, ripped in two by some catastrophe, to the disbelieving horror of Sulu and the rest of the bridge crew. Rand reports that she has intercepted a message from Praxis and puts it up: the viewscreen is filled with the grisly image of a Klingon officer, standing on a deck heaving beneath his feet and surrounded by flames, shouting desperately at the pickup. The message abruptly cuts off when more flames erupt in front of him and is replaced by an official transmission from Klingon Brigadier General Kerla, speaking for the Klingon High Command. Kerla explains that there has been an "incident" on Praxis, but that everything is under control and Federation assistance is not required, warning the Excelsior to "obey treaty stipulations and remain outside the Neutral Zone." The transmission ends and the Klingon emblem replaces it.

Rand asks Sulu if they should notify Starfleet and Sulu simply replies: "Are you kidding?!"

Two months later on Earth, the senior crew of the USS Enterprise-A assembles for a meeting at Starfleet Headquarters in San Francisco. The C-in-C of Starfleet opens the meeting, bluntly stating that the Klingon Empire has only fifty years of life left to it. He turns the meeting over to the Federation Special Envoy. Much to the surprise of Kirk and his officers, it is Spock. He announces that the destruction of Praxis has polluted the Klingon homeworld's ozone so badly that the planet has only fifty years remaining without diverting resources from its significant military expenditures. At the behest of Vulcan ambassador Sarek, Spock has opened a dialogue with Klingon Chancellor Gorkon, who wishes to end all hostilities between the Empire and Starfleet, proposing the dismantling of all starbases in and around the Neutral Zone. The Military aide asks if they plan to mothball Starfleet, but Bill said that their "exploration and scientific programs would be unaffected." Admiral Cartwright interrupts, vehemently objecting, saying the Klingons must not be offered safe haven in Federation space, suggesting Starfleet use military force in order to dictate terms from a superior position. Captain Kirk agrees that giving the Klingons free reign in Federation space is a "terrifying idea." However, Spock counters, arguing that they must act now to support the Gorkon initiative before conservative elements in the Klingon Empire can seize control and try to fight to the death.

Spock has volunteered the Enterprise and its crew to welcome Gorkon and his aides aboard and escort their ship to a peace meeting on Earth. Kirk protests that he is hardly the man for the job but is overruled and commanded to extend full diplomatic courtesy. Verbally sending the Enterprise on its way, the commander in chief thanks the assembled Starfleet officers and reminds them the meeting they've just had is classified, dismissing them too.

At this point, Kirk is left alone with Spock, who reminds him of an old Vulcan proverb that "only Nixon could go to China." Kirk is angry that Spock would volunteer the Enterprise without consulting him. Spock states that his father requested he open the negotiations with the Klingons. Though Kirk knows that Spock's father is the Vulcan ambassador, Kirk is furious at Spock for forcing him to treat the Klingon "animals" like honored guests after what they did to his son; Spock knows how he feels about the Klingons, but reminds Kirk they are dying. Kirk snaps, "Let them die!" Upon Spock's somewhat startled reaction, Kirk asks Spock if he has realized that the Enterprise crew is due to stand down in just three months time, saying that they have all done their "bit for king and country" and Kirk says that Spock should have trusted him. They stand in the conference hall in silence, looking at each other from opposite ends of the long conference table, uneasy at the new prospects that face them.

Soon after, Captain Kirk and party are ferried to the Spacedock One aboard SD-103 and board the Enterprise. Upon arriving at the bridge, Kirk, Spock, and McCoy meet Lieutenant Valeris, a young Vulcan female and the first Vulcan to graduate at the top of her class at Starfleet Academy, who is volunteering as helmsman. "Let's get this over with. Departure stations," Kirk announces to his crew. After an awkward moment when Kirk orders Valeris to depart Spacedock at one quarter impulse power despite regulations specifying thrusters only, the Enterprise departs Spacedock and the Sol system to rendezvous with Gorkon's battle cruiser, Kronos One.

Valeris then interrupts Kirk in his quarters. She informs him that the Enterprise is almost upon arrival at the rendezvous point. Valeris then tells Kirk how much of an honor it is to serve with him. Kirk tells her she piloted well out of Spacedock and Valeris tells him she has always wanted to try it.

Later, Valeris discusses logic and philosophy with Spock in his quarters in terms of their current mission. Spock says history is replete with turning points and she must have faith that the universe will ultimately unfold as it should. When Valeris begins to ask if that is logical, Spock points out a simple fact that has taken him a lifetime to learn; logic is only the beginning of wisdom and not the end. Spock is soon to retire, with this being his last voyage on the Enterprise as a member of the crew and he intends for Valeris to replace him. Valeris states that she could only succeed Spock. Upon this, an announcement is made through the ship's intercom that all hands are to report to duty stations as a Klingon battlecruiser has arrived off the Enterprise's port bow.

Upon rendezvous with Gorkon, Captain Kirk reluctantly, but formally, invites the Chancellor and his staff to have dinner aboard the Enterprise at 1930 hours as guests of the Federation. Valeris then suggests opening up the supply of Romulan ale that is aboard, thinking it may help the evening progress more smoothly. Kirk compliments her thinking and leaves the bridge. "Guess who's coming to dinner?", Commander Chekov quietly says.

Later, in the transporter room, Kirk, Spock, McCoy, and Scott are on hand to greet Gorkon and his party. All behave cordially on the surface. Gorkon introduces his daughter, Azetbur, his military adviser, Brigadier General Kerla, and General Chang, his chief of staff. While Gorkon is dignified and gracious, offering Spock his sincere gratitude for his actions towards peace, Chang, who has an especially smug, obnoxious demeanor, tells Kirk that he has so wanted to meet the great Captain Kirk, "warrior to warrior" out of admiration. "Right," Kirk coldly replies. He leads the Klingon delegation out of the room, thinking they might enjoy a brief tour of the vessel.

Shortly afterward, both Kirk and Gorkon's staff dine together. Gorkon gives a toast to "the undiscovered country – the future". Spock recognizes the line from Hamlet, specifically from act III, scene I, and Gorkon tells Spock that one has never read Shakespeare properly until reading the text in "the original Klingon." McCoy diplomatically offers a toast to Gorkon, calling him "one of the architects of our future." The dinner proceeds with surface pleasantries gradually melting to reveal angry hostility. In particular, Chekov says the Federation believes all worlds have the sovereign claim to inalienable Human rights and Azetbur points out that this statement is racist and that the Federation is little better than a homo sapiens only club, "present company excepted, of course," Chang adds. Chang tells Kirk that they all need breathing room, which Kirk points out is the same thing Hitler said in 1938, which offends Chang. Thinly masking his disappointment, Gorkon simply quips that they have a long way to go.

As the Klingons prepare to leave, Kirk sarcastically jokes that they must do this again sometime. Gorkon says he knows Kirk doesn't trust him, and offers that "if there is to be a brave, new world, our generation is going to have the hardest time living in it." Chang walks up to Kirk before leaving, telling him "parting is such sweet sorrow," and steps onto the transporter platform while Kirk shakes his head. Once the Klingons are safely beamed off the ship, the entire senior staff relaxes, observing that the Klingons exhibited poor manners; Spock notes that they were little better. "I'm going to sleep this off. Please let me know if there's some other way we can screw up tonight," Kirk says before leaving. McCoy announces he is going to find a pot of black coffee. Spock raises his eyebrow.

Lying down to sleep, and nursing a terrible hangover, Kirk is summoned to the bridge by Spock. Sensors are picking up an enormous amount of neutron radiation which appears to be emanating from Enterprise (which an equally hungover Chekov painfully jokes that it is only the size of his head). A photon torpedo shoots out and strikes Kronos One. The entire bridge crew immediately jumps into action, as a second photon torpedo knocks out the gravity. Kirk asks Scotty if Enterprise actually fired and Scotty denies it as according to the inventory the ship still has her entire complement of torpedoes.

As the Klingons begin floating helplessly about, a transporter beam engages and two men in Starfleet uniforms with closed helmets and gravity boots begin walking through the corridors, shooting every Klingon they come in contact with, including Gorkon.

When auxiliary gravity is restored on Kronos One, Gorkon is discovered, mortally wounded. A furious Chang accuses Kirk of defiling the peace they're striving to work for, and saying that he'll blow them out of the stars. Kirk denies that they fired, although the ship's data banks say they did according to Spock. Kirk orders that the Enterprise surrender, much to the surprise of the bridge crew. He prepares to board Kronos One leaving Spock in command – where he'll be able to get Kirk out of trouble. Spock subtly slaps a small black patch on Kirk's back. McCoy decides to go too in case they need a doctor. "Uhura, tell them we're coming and tell them we're unarmed!", Kirk says.

When they materialize on Kronos One, Kerla asks if Kirk has "lost his mind." Kirk swears they genuinely do not know what has happened and that they only want to help. Kerla reluctantly allows them to follow him to Gorkon, who is badly wounded. Chang tells him about the torpedoes, the gravity, and the assassins. McCoy tries to save Gorkon but fails due to his lack of knowledge of Klingon anatomy. Before dying, Gorkon reaches up to Kirk, grasping the back of his head, and begs him not to let it end this way. General Chang has Kirk and McCoy arrested for murder under article 184 of Interstellar Law.

On the Enterprise Uhura relays the news of their arrest. Spock then formally assumes command of the ship and begins a full-scale investigation. When Chekov asks what will happen if they cannot piece together what transpired, Spock says then "in that case, Mr. Chekov, it resides in the purview of the diplomats."

On Earth, the Klingon Ambassador is speaking with the Federation President in his office in Paris, defending his government's decision to arrest Kirk and McCoy for the assassination of Chancellor Gorkon. The president has ordered a full-scale investigation too, but the Klingon ambassador says that by the articles of interstellar law Kirk and McCoy must stand trial in a Klingon court. Sarek and Romulan ambassador Nanclus concur. As the Klingon Ambassador leaves, the commander-in-chief, Admiral Cartwright, and Colonel West enter. They propose a plan they call Operation Retrieve, to rescue Kirk and McCoy, West states that they could go in and get Kirk and McCoy in less than 24 hours with acceptable losses in manpower and equipment. The president asks what would happen then if they precipitate a full scale war and West frankly states "Then Mr. President, we can clean their chronometers." Nanclus tells the president that the Klingons are vulnerable and there would never be a better time to strike them. Cartwright says that the longer they wait, the less accessible the hostages become. The president then dismisses everyone saying he'll keep all this in mind. Everyone except for Sarek leaves the president alone. At the door, the C in C stops and reminds the president that Kirk and McCoy have literally saved the planet. The president knows this and tells the C in C that they are now going to save it again… by standing trial.

Uhura receives a message from Starfleet Command ordering them to return to Earth immediately. Both she and Chekov agree they cannot abandon the captain and Dr. McCoy. Valeris tells the both of them how 400 years ago on the planet Earth, when workers felt threatened by automation, they flung their wooden shoes called sabots into the machines to stop them, thus coining the word "sabotage." Uhura comes up with a response that Enterprise's backup systems are all inoperative. "Excellent. I-I-I mean, too bad," Chekov says.

Azetbur, now Klingon Chancellor, communicates with the President. She says in one week she will attend a peace conference at a neutral, secret site on the condition that they will not extradite Kirk and McCoy and that the Federation will make no attempts at a military extraction. If they do so, the Klingons will consider it an act of war.

After ending the transmission to the Federation President, Azetbur's advisors (including Kerla) suggest attacking the Federation now while they still can, or else the Federation will take advantage of Praxis' destruction and enslave them. Azetbur stands up to them, saying that war is obsolete, as they are in danger of becoming. One of her advisors sneers, "better to die on our feet than live on our knees!" Azetbur firmly says that her father wanted peace, and Chang, standing aside in the corner, speaks for the first time, reminding her gently that her father's wishes got him killed. Azetbur stands her ground, saying the peace process will go forward, but adds, with resolve, that Kirk will pay for her father's death.

Spock's investigation is proceeding. The computer says that Enterprise fired and the torpedo inventory says they didn't, so they'll have to inspect each torpedo visually.

The trial begins, with Chang as prosecutor and Colonel Worf as Kirk and McCoy's defense attorney. In a Klingon trial on Qo'noS, the prosecution and defense question witnesses at the same time. The first witness says the murderers were wearing magnetic boots, a fact which, while viewing the trial back on the bridge of the Enterprise gets Spock to thinking. Chang then begins questioning McCoy, starting with McCoy's current medical status, to which McCoy jokes "other than a touch of arthritis, I'd say, pretty good!" Chang tries to impugn McCoy's medical competence and questions whether he really tried his best to save Gorkon. McCoy says he desperately tried to save Gorkon as he was the last best hope for peace. The judge then excuses him.

Chang then turns to Kirk and calls him "the architect of this tragic affair." Chang accuses Kirk of plotting to kill Gorkon as revenge for the death of his son, a charge Kirk denies. Worf objects, stating Kirk has not been identified as the assassin. Chang enters into the record an excerpt from Kirk's personal log:

Kirk admits that he did indeed say this. Chang uses a number of examples from Kirk's record to show that it's possible he arranged for Gorkon's murder, such as his demotion from admiral to captain for insubordination. Kirk is maneuvered into stating that of course he is responsible for the actions of every member of his crew. The judge finds both guilty as charged, which carries a death penalty. Worf argues that the bulk of the evidence against his clients is circumstantial and begs the court to consider this upon sentencing. The judge agrees then commutes their death sentences to life without parole on the penal asteroid of Rura Penthe, known throughout the galaxy as the aliens' graveyard.

On Excelsior, where Sulu and his crew have also been watching the trial, the captain directs that a message be sent to Enterprise, telling them that Sulu and the crew of Excelsior stand ready to assist them.

With the trial concluded, Spock asks Valeris to replay the footage of the torpedo launch. Scott insists that all the Enterprise torpedoes have been visually accounted for, and there is no way the ship could have fired. Spock repeats a maxim of one of his ancestors: "once you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth." If Enterprise could not have fired, it must have come from a cloaked ship, probably a Bird-of-Prey, hiding underneath Enterprise. Scotty objects that a Bird-of-Prey cannot fire its weapons while cloaked, but Spock rejoins that apparently this one can. Unfortunately, they have no evidence, only a theory which happens to fit the facts available. Chekov argues that if there was a cloaked ship, the assassins must have beamed onto Gorkon's ship from there, not Enterprise, but Spock reminds him that someone was responsible for firing the torpedoes or making the false entry in the ship's data banks; either way, the person or persons responsible are aboard Enterprise. Spock puts Valeris in charge of a search for two pairs of gravity boots.

Kirk and McCoy are taken from Qo'noS, along with a group of other prisoners, to the frozen wasteland of Rura Penthe, an appropriately harsh place protected only by a magnetic shield. On arrival at the prison, they are greeted by the warden, who warns them that escape is quite impossible, and that anyone who is disobedient or fails to work hard enough will be punished via exile from prison to the surface where nothing can survive; a fact which is graphically demonstrated when a naked prisoner is dragged out and thrown into the snowy wastes to rapidly freeze to death. Inside the prison, Kirk almost immediately has an altercation with a large alien, but is rescued by an exotic looking woman, Martia.

In the galley, Spock and Valeris observe the search going on. When Chekov asks Valeris why the assassins didn't simply vaporize the boots, she pulls a phaser out from a weapons locker and vaporizes a nearby pot. An alarm goes off and she deactivates it, explaining to Chekov that you cannot fire an unauthorized phaser set to vaporize aboard a starship. Scotty and Uhura come in wanting to know who triggered the alarm by firing the phaser. They continue to stall for time by claiming malfunctioning equipment. Uhura reminds Spock that they have lost all contact with Kirk and McCoy. Spock notes this but says that if he knows Kirk well, by this time he is deep into planning his escape.

Meanwhile, Kirk is engaged in hand-to-hand combat with another alien, and is surprised when he wins. Kirk informs McCoy and Martia that he was lucky the brute had knees. Martia tells Kirk that that was not his knee, noting that not all species have their genitals in the same place. Martia offers to help Kirk and McCoy escape. That night in their bunks, Kirk admits he'd gotten so used to hating Klingons and that it never even occurred to him to take Gorkon at his word. Martia comes in, gives Kirk a big kiss and tells him where to meet her to plan an escape.

Aboard Excelsior, Sulu's officer tells him that Starfleet wants to know what has happened to the Enterprise. Sulu states that he nor the Excelsior personnel know anything about the Enterprise and dismisses the officer. Now Sulu is getting really worried.

In the transporter room, Chekov finds some small dried remains on the transporter platform and takes a sample of it to Spock, who discovers that it is Klingon blood, which must have been floating through the Klingon ship and got tracked back to Enterprise by the assassins walking through it. Spock notes this as the first piece of evidence to corroborate their theory and therefore expands the search to include all uniforms aboard ship. Valeris eventually finds the magnetic boots; however, they are in the locker of a crewman whose feet are shaped differently from Humans'; the boots couldn't possibly be his much to Chekov's surprise.

Kirk and McCoy get into a lift for mining duty and discover that Martia is a shapeshifter. She changes bodies several times in the course of leading them out of the range of the magnetic shield. Uhura and Spock have noted Kirk's exit from the beaming shield as well. Spock orders the ship to Rura Penthe. It seems that what he put on Kirk's back was a viridium patch which enabled him to track the captain.

The Enterprise passes into Klingon space and gets the attention of a Klingon listening post. If they respond while using the universal translator, the sentries would pick it up. In badly broken Klingon, Uhura identifies her ship as a freighter, IKS Ursva, headed to Rura Penthe to "condemn" food, supplies and "things." The Klingons at the listening post are fooled and end up making a Klingon joke, in which the Klingons and the Enterprise crew forcibly laugh at.

As Martia produces warm clothes and other supplies and lights a flare for heat, Kirk realizes that Martia is setting him and McCoy up to be killed. She's spoken previously of a huge reward to the person who gets them, and the flare is a dead giveaway. Martia changes into a duplicate Kirk and they fight, rolling all over the snow before being stopped by a jackal mastiff, Klingon guards, and the warden. Kirk and Martia (still appearing as Kirk) stand next to each other. Kirk convinces the warden to shoot Martia, since they don't want any witnesses. Kirk then asks who wanted them killed. Just before the warden can identify the culprit, Kirk and McCoy are beamed out of the cave – with Kirk swearing the whole way up.

Materializing on the transporter pad, Kirk asks Spock if he couldn't have waited just two more seconds, as the warden was about to explain the whole thing. When Chekov sheepishly asks if they want to go back, McCoy answers "Absolutely not!" Kirk adds, "It's cold." Chang finds out about this from the commandant and prepares to intercept the Enterprise.

Sitting in the Enterprise's officers' mess, Scott discovers two sets of uniforms with Klingon blood on them. Scott runs up to Kirk, Spock, McCoy, and Chekov in a corridor and they subsequently find Yeomen Burke and Samno, both dead, killed by a phaser stun at close range. They were the ones on guard in the transporter room when Gorkon and party first beamed aboard the Enterprise. To lure out the assassin, an announcement is made over the ship's intercom ordering the court reporter to sickbay and that statements will be taken from Burke and Samno, as if they are merely injured. Someone walks into the darkened sickbay with phaser in hand – it is revealed to be Valeris. Valeris is stunned to see Kirk and her mentor Spock in the bio-beds instead of the dead crewmen. Hurt and angry over her betrayal, Spock challenges Valeris to shoot him (while Kirk prefers she doesn't), and violently slaps the phaser out of her hand. McCoy emerges from the shadows and informs her that the operation is over.

On the bridge, Valeris claims that as she did not fire the crew has no proof against her, but Kirk does. He reminds her that his personal log was used as evidence against him at the trial; she must have recorded him talking on his personal log that night when Valeris was standing outside his doorway. Valeris dodges the accusation by accusing Kirk and the entire ship of betraying Starfleet. When McCoy calls her on it and asks her what she thinks she's been doing, she says she's been working to save Starfleet. She doesn't believe Klingons can ever be trusted, and reminds Kirk that they killed his son and how he said to "let them die" rather than help, and Kirk can't help but feel ashamed that he made such a statement. She reveals that some Klingons conspired with Starfleet officers to kill their own Chancellor – how trustworthy can they be? McCoy ponders the concept of peace between the Klingons and Federation being so unacceptable to members of both sides that they worked together to prevent it (while implying the irony that the conspiracy actually proves that Humans and Klingons actually can coexist and work together). Kirk demands the names of her co-conspirators, and Valeris claims she does not remember. "A lie?", Spock asks. "A choice," she replies.

Spock slowly walks up to Valeris near the viewscreen and forces her into a mind meld, discovering that the conspirators include Admiral Cartwright, General Chang, and the Romulan Ambassador, Nanclus. Kirk asks where the peace conference will be held, so Spock looks further into her mind to the point it causes her physical pain, but Valeris ultimately does not know where the peace conference is. The Enterprise contacts the Excelsior and Sulu tells Kirk that the conference will be held at Camp Khitomer, beginning later that day.

Later, in Spock's quarters, Kirk admits that he couldn't get past the death of his son and that it took Gorkon's death to get him to realize how prejudiced he was. Spock admits he was prejudiced by Valeris's accomplishments as a Vulcan and speculates that he and Kirk – with their inflexible thinking – are obsolete.

The Khitomer conference begins, as Enterprise drops out of warp and races towards the planet at impulse. If Chang's ship is there, it's cloaked, and the only means of detecting it would be the same surge of neutron radiation that occurred when Gorkon's ship was fired upon. Tension mounts on board the ship as they get ever closer to transporter range. With just over 40 seconds to go, Chang contacts Kirk over subspace and asks him, "warrior to warrior," to admit that Kirk prefers for the Federation and Klingons to remain enemies, and continue slaughtering each other in glorious combat: "Once more unto the breach, dear friends…"

Then, with another quote of "to be or not to be…" in Klingon, Chang signals his gunner, and the Bird-of-Prey opens fire with photon torpedoes. With the cloak in place, Enterprise's shields take a pounding, but they cannot return fire. Although Chang continues to taunt Kirk, Uhura tries but fails to locate the source of his transmissions.

Excelsior is hurtling to Khitomer at maximum warp. Aboard the bridge, which is trembling with the force of acceleration, helmsman Lojur warns, "She'll fly apart!"  Sulu retorts, "Fly her apart then!"

On Khitomer, Azetbur's speech has begun and a Klingon stands up and walks out carrying a briefcase. Admiral Cartwright nervously watches, sweat dripping down his face.

In space, Enterprise continues to take heavy damage, and Scott warns their shields are collapsing. A minor explosion on the bridge prompts Kirk to order auxiliary power, but Spock reports that the auxiliary circuits have been destroyed. Watching Enterprise attempting to evade, Chang quotes The Merchant of Venice:

Spock realizes that even with her cloak in place, the Bird-of-Prey's impulse engines will still vent plasma exhaust; Uhura suggests using the equipment they have on-board to catalog gaseous anomalies as a guidance system. Spock asks McCoy to help him "perform surgery" on a photon torpedo to enable it to do so. "Fascinating!", the physician says. Kirk continues to order evasive maneuvers in an attempt to mitigate the torpedo impacts across the hull.

Enterprise continues to suffer heavy damage, but before she can be crippled, Sulu arrives with Excelsior, taking some of the pressure off Enterprise as Chang chooses to divide his attacks between opponents. However, Chang has merely been slowed down: with his ability to fire while cloaked, Chang is still running circles around both ships.

At Khitomer, the Klingon who left has found a vantage point on an upper level and is cutting a small hole in one of the glass panes to aim a weapon at the President.

Chang relentlessly fires Shakespeare quotations such as:

and continues firing torpedoes, weakening Enterprise's shields to the point that it takes a direct hit on the ventral-port side of the saucer section that ruptures the hull. Spock and McCoy complete their modifications to the photon torpedo, and with a great deal of satisfaction, Kirk gives the order to fire. It homes in on the cloaked Bird-of-Prey and lands a direct hit, but not before Chang gives his last Shakespeare quote from Hamlet:

Enterprise and Excelsior immediately target the location of the explosion, unleashing a barrage of torpedoes that destroy Chang's now decloaked (and shield-less) ship.

The Enterprise crew beams down just in time for Kirk to knock the president out of the way of the would-be assassin's phaser rifle blast. He identifies himself to the dazed president. Cartwright orders them arrested and Spock retorts "Arrest yourself!" displaying a handcuffed Valeris. McCoy says that they have a full confession just as the Klingon assassin is about to shoot Valeris. At that moment, Scott kicks in the door to the assassin's hiding place, and shoots him just before he can kill Valeris. He falls through the glass pane to the floor. The Commander In Chief and Colonel Worf rush to the body and find out that it's not a Klingon; it's Colonel West. Cartwright takes advantage of the ruckus and tries to flee but is thwarted when Sulu, armed and accompanied by two security guards, transports from Excelsior and holds him there.

A confused and angry Azetbur demands to know what is going on. Kirk tells her this is all about the future and that history has not ended quite yet. Thinking of Gorkon's reference to the future as "the undiscovered country," Kirk notes that people can be very frightened of change. Azetbur tells Kirk he's restored her father's faith and Kirk tells her she's restored his son's. At that moment, the room breaks out into applause as the remaining Enterprise officers (including Sulu) walk up and join Kirk on the platform.

As Enterprise and Excelsior rendezvous above Khitomer, Kirk and crew reenter the bridge and exchange pleasantries with Captain Sulu. "Nice to see you in action one more time, Captain Kirk. Take care," Sulu says as Excelsior moves away from the Enterprise, departing Khitomer. "By God, that's a big ship," McCoy says. "Not so big as her captain, I think," Scott adds. Chekov muses, "So… this is good-bye."

"I think it's about time we got underway ourselves," Kirk mentions. Uhura then tells Kirk that they've received direct orders from Starfleet Command to return Enterprise to Spacedock for decommissioning. The crew looks around at each other, emotional that their time together as a crew is now coming to an end.

Spock contemplates that for a moment and then remarks, "If I were Human, I believe my response would be 'Go to Hell.' If I were Human." When Chekov asks for a course heading, Kirk tells him "Second star to the right, and straight on 'til morning."

Uhura steps over near Scott and everyone watches as Enterprise heads off toward the stars on one final voyage.

"I thought I would assume a pleasing shape." (Act II, Scene II)

"The undiscovered country." (Act III, Scene I)

"To be, or not to be." (Act III, Scene I)

"Cry havoc! And let slip the dogs of war!" (Act III, Scene I)

"I am constant as the northern star." (Act III, Scene I)

"Have we not heard the chimes at midnight?" (Act III, Scene II)

"Once more unto the breach, dear friends." (Act III, Scene I)

"The game's afoot." (Act III, Scene I)

"Tickle us, do we not laugh? Prick us, do we not bleed? Wrong us, shall we not revenge?" (Act III, Scene I)

"Let us sit upon the ground and tell sad stories of the death of kings." (Act III, Scene II)

"Parting is such sweet sorrow." (Act II, Scene II)

"Our revels now are ended." (Act IV, Scene I)

"Do we report this, sir?"
"Are you kidding?"


"I must protest. To offer Klingons safe haven within Federation space is suicide. Klingons would become the alien trash of the galaxy. And if we dismantle the fleet, we'd be defenseless before an aggressive species with a foothold on our territory. The opportunity here is to bring them to their knees. Then we'll be in a far better position to dictate terms."


"I don't know whether to congratulate you or not, Jim."
"I wouldn't."


"There is an old Vulcan proverb. Only Nixon could go to China."


"I know your father's the Vulcan Ambassador, for heaven's sake. But you know how I feel about this. They're animals!"
"Jim, there is an historic opportunity here."
"Don't believe them! Don't trust them!"
"They're dying."
"Let them die! Has it occurred to you that this crew is due to stand down in three months? We've done our bit for King and Country. You should have trusted me."


"You must be very proud."
"I don't believe so, sir."
"She's a Vulcan all right."


"I've never trusted Klingons and I never will. I can never forgive them for the death of my boy."


"History is replete with turning points, Lieutenant."


"Logic is the beginning of wisdom, Valeris, not the end."


"Guess who's coming to dinner?"


"I offer a toast. The undiscovered country … The future."


"In space, all warriors are cold warriors."


"Human rights. Why the very name is racist. The Federation is no more than a homo sapiens only club."


"We need breathing room."
"Earth, Hitler, 1938."
"I beg your pardon."


"If there is to be a brave new world, our generation is going to have the hardest time living in it."


"Did you see the way they ate?!"
"Terrible table manners!"
"I doubt that our own behavior will distinguish us in the annals of diplomacy."


"Valeris, do you know anything about a radiation surge?"
"Sir?"
"Chekov?"
"Only the size of my head."
"I know what you mean."


"We come in peace and you BLATANTLY defile that peace! And for that, I shall blow you out of the stars!"
"We haven't fired!"
"Captain, according to our databanks we have. Twice."


"Don't let it end this way, Captain."


"This president is not above the law."


"Then, quite frankly, Mister President, we can clean their chronometers."


"Sir… Those men have literally saved this planet."
"Yes, Bill, I know that. And now they're going to save it again. By standing trial."


"I'll bet that Klingon bitch killed her father!"


"Doctor McCoy, would you be so good as to tell me your current medical status?"
"Aside from a touch of arthritis, I'd say pretty good!"


"James Tiberius Kirk… What would your favorite author say, Captain? Let us sit upon the ground and tell sad stories of the death of kings. Tell us your sad story Kirk, Tell us how you planned to take revenge for the death of your son."
"That's not true."
"Objection! Captain Kirk has not been identified as the assassin!"
"Sustained."


"Do you deny being demoted by these charges?! Don't wait for the translation!! Answer me now!!"
"I cannot deny it."
"You were demoted?"
"Yes."
"For insubordination?"
"On occasion, I have disobeyed orders."


"An ancestor of mine maintained that if you eliminate the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth."


"This is the gulag Rura Penthe. There is no stockade. No guard tower. No electronic frontier. Only a magnetic shield prevents beaming. Punishment means exile from prison to the surface. On the surface, nothing can survive. Work well, and you will be treated well. Work badly, and you will die."


"If my surmise is correct, those boots will cling to the killers' necks like a pair of Tiberian bats."


"I'm Martia. You're Kirk and McCoy, I presume."
"How did you know that?"
"We don't get many presidential assassins."


"I was lucky that thing had knees."
"That was not his knee. Not everybody keeps their genitals in the same place, Captain."


"What is it with you, anyway?"
"Still think we're finished?"
"More than ever."


"Perhaps you know Russian epic of Cinderella? If the shoe fits, wear it!"


"Mr. Scott, start your engines."
"Aye, aye sir."


"Leave me. I'm finished."
"No! Bones, I'm wearing a viridium patch on my back. Spock slapped it there just before we went on Gorkon's ship."
"Why, that cunning little Vulcan."


"An accident wasn't good enough."
"Good enough for one. Two would've looked suspicious. Killed while attempting escape … now that's convincing for both."


"I can't believe I kissed you."
"Must have been your lifelong ambition."


"Isn't it about time you became something else?"
"I like it here."


"Kill him!  He's the one!"
"Not me, you idiot!  HIM!"


"Who? Who wanted us killed?"
"Since you're all going to die, anyway, why not tell you? His name is…!"


"Couldn't you have waited just two more seconds!?"
"Captain?"
"He was just about to explain the whole thing!"
"You want to go back!?"
"Absolutely not!!"
"It's cold!"


"First rule of assassination. Kill the assassins."


"You have betrayed the Federation. All of you."
"And what have you been doing?"
"Saving Starfleet!"


"Then we're dead."
"I've been dead before."


"Thank you, Captain Sulu."
"Don't mention it, Captain Kirk."


"You were right. It was arrogant presumption on my part that got us into this… situation. You and the Doctor might have been killed."
"The night is young."


"You're a great one for logic. I'm a great one for rushing in where angels fear to tread."


"Is it possible that we two, you and I, have grown so old and so inflexible that we have outlived our usefulness?"


"Do you want to know something? Everybody's Human."
"I find that remark… insulting."


"Let us redefine progress to mean that just because we can do a thing it does not necessarily follow that we must do that thing."


"I can see you, Kirk."
"Chang."
"Can you see me? Oh, now be honest, Captain, warrior to warrior. You do prefer it this way, don't you, as it was meant to be? No peace in our time. "Once more unto the breach, dear friends."


"Come on. Come on!"
"She'll fly apart."
"Fly her apart, then!"


"Doctor, would you care to assist me in performing surgery on a torpedo?"
"Fascinating!"


"I'd give real money if he'd shut up."


"We've got a heartbeat!"

"Where's that damn torpedo?"
"It's ready, Jim. Lock and load!"

"Some people think the future means the end of history. Well, we haven't run out of history quite yet."


"You've restored my father's faith."
"And you've restored my son's."


"Once again we've saved civilization as we know it."
"And the good news is, they're not going to prosecute."


"Nice to see you in action one more time, Captain Kirk. Take care."


"So… this is goodbye."


"Captain, I have orders from Starfleet Command. We're to be put back into Spacedock immediately. To be decommissioned."
"If I were Human, I believe my response would be: Go to hell! If I were Human."


"Course heading, Captain?"
"Second star to the right. And straight on 'til morning."

In Star Trek VI, during his trial, Bones says that he has been the ship's surgeon for 27 years. He took the post from Mark Piper at some point in 2265, after "Where No Man Has Gone Before", or in early 2266, before "The Corbomite Maneuver". This statement establishes a time frame for the film from 2292 to 2293.

The film ends with the last voyage of the ship and crew. The prologue of Star Trek Generations is set more precisely in 2293, or 78 years before 2371. In the prologue, a news reporter and Scotty talk with Kirk about how he has settled down into his retirement, suggesting that the retirement from the previous film is still a very recent thing for him.

StarTrek.com, Star Trek Chronology, and Star Trek Encyclopedia, 3rd ed., p. 691 use the year 2293. Memory Alpha uses this year as well.

Star Trek VI: The Undiscovered Country received the following awards and honors.

19th century; 1938; 2223; 2266; 2290; 2343; 24-hour clock; Aamaarazan; abduction; accident; act; act of war; Adam and Eve Expelled from Paradise; address; admiral; admiration; advocate; aft; agenda; aide-de-camp; alarm; alien; Alpha Quadrant; ambassador; ambition; amount; anatomy; ancestor; annals; answer; architect; arrest; arthritis; article; artificial gravity; ash; assassin; assassination; automation; attack; author; auxiliary circuit; auxiliary gravity; auxiliary power; back; back-up system; battle cruiser, Klingon; battle stations; beaming; beaming shield; bearing; behavior; Beta Quadrant; Beta Quadrant sector; black; blood; "bloody"; boat; boatswain's whistle; "Bones"; bow; bridge; brigadier; Brotherhood of Aliens; bug; Burke; Camp Khitomer; capital; cardiac arrest; career; chairing; chameloid; chain of command; Chancellor of the Klingon High Council; Chang's Bird-of-Prey; charge; chief of staff; chimes; China; choice; Christ, Jesus; chronometer; Cinderella; circuit A; circumstantial evidence; citizen; citizenship; civilization; client; cloaking device, Klingon; close range; club; coat; Code blue; coffee; cold warrior; colleague; colonel; commander in chief; commandant; communications station; commutation; computer; comrade; Concise History of the Klingon Empire, A; condolences; conference; confession; confiscation; conspiracy; Constitution-class; Constitution II-class; control tower; conversation; Coon, G.L.; coordinates; course; court; court reporter; creature; crew quarters; crewman; cruise; crime; damage report; data; data banks; daughter; Davis; day; death; death sentence; decommissioning; deflector shield; degree; demotion; departure stations; depiction; dialogue; dilithium; dinner; diplomacy; diplomat; diplomatic corps; diplomatic function; dockmaster; doctor; Earth; Earth Cold War; Earth year; echo bar; economy; Efrosian; electronic frontier; energy production facility; engine room; Enterprise-A, USS; epic; error; evening; evidence; Excelsior-class; Excelsior, USS; excerpt; exile; existence; exoneration; exploration; exploration program; explosion; extradition; extremist; eyepatch; fact; faith; father; Federation; Federation headquarters; Federation members; Federation President; Federation-Klingon Cold War; Federation space; feeling; feet; first officer; flag of truce; flare; flatbed shuttle; forgery; "for king and country"; France; free will; freighter; friend; fuel; full ambassador; future; galley; gang; Garden of Eden; gas; gavel; general; generation; genitals; "give real money"; Gorkon initiative; graveyard; gravitational field; gravity; gravity boot; ground; guard tower; guest; guilt; gulag; hailing frequency; Hamlet; hand; handcuffs; head; hearing; heart; heartbeat; helm; helmsman; Henry IV, Part I; Henry IV, Part II; Hitler, Adolf; Holmes, Sherlock; hostage; hostility; hour; Human (homo sapiens); Human rights; idea; idealism/idealist; idiot; "If you eliminate the impossible..."; ignorance; impulse power; information; insubordination; intercept course; interstellar law; Introduction to Klingon Grammer; jackal mastiff; joke; judgment; Julius Caesar; K't'inga-class; key; kiss; Khitomer; Khitomer Accords; Khitomer Conference; Khitomer conspiracy; kill setting; king; Klingon Bird-of-Prey; Klingon Empire; Klingons; Klingon High Command; Klingon frontier; Klingon history; Klingon Neutral Zone; Klingon Defense Force uniforms; Klingon space; Klingonese; knee; Kobayashi Maru scenario; Kronos One; laughter; level; Lincoln, Abraham; "linguistic legerdemain"; light; light year; listening post; listing; livelihood; location; logic; lunatic; lying (lie); machine; madam; magnetic boots (gravity boots); Marcus, David; master; medical status; medical tricorder; meeting; Megazoid; Merchant of Venice, The; meteor shower; midnight; Milky Way Galaxy; military advisor; military budget (budget); military operation; mine; mission; mission of peace; model; money; month; moon; mooring; morning; Morska; mothballing; motive; multiple choice; murderer; mythology; name; NAR; neck; negotiation; neutral zone; neutron radiation; news; night; Nixon, Richard M.; Northern Star; obedience; objection; officers' mess; Okrand; Okrand's Unabridged Klingon Dictionary; olive branch; Operation Retrieve; opportunist; order; oxygen; ozone; pair; pardon; Paris; parole; patricide; peace; peace conference; peace summit; peace talks; peace treaty; penal asteroid; penal colony; permission; personal log; Pfaltzgraff; phaser; photon torpedo; physics; piano; place; plasma (ionized gas); plasma exhaust; plate; pollution; port (facility); port (side of ship); port gate; Post, Emily; pot; Praxis; prejudice; president; prison; prisoner; progress; problem; prototype; proverb; pulse; punishment; Qo'noS; question; quarters; rank; reality; refuse; rendezvous; report; reprieve; resource; result; retirement; revenge; reward; risk; Romulan; Romulan ale; Romulan government; Romulan border; rose; rudder; Rura Penthe; Russian; sabot; sabotage; Saboteurs; safe haven; safety precaution; Salak; Samno; San Francisco; saucer; scene; science station; scientific program; Scots language; screaming; SD-103; SD-103 type; second; secret; sector; Sector 70; seminar; sensor; sentence; service record; Shakespeare, William; ship's bell; ship's surgeon; shoe; shouting; show trial; sickbay; silent running; size; slave; smell; smoking; sniper rifle; son; sorrow; space station; Spacedock One; special envoy; species; speculation; Spoken Languages of the Klingon Empire; sponsor; starbase; starboard; Starfleet; Starfleet Academy; Starfleet Command; Starfleet Command Intelligence Database; Starfleet Headquarters; Starfleet regulations; state dinner; statement; stern; stockade; story; stun setting; subspace; subspace channel; subspace message; subspace transmission; subspace shock wave; suicide; surface; surgeon; surgery; surrender; table; table manners; tail pipe; targ; tear; tear duct; Tempest, The; terrorism; territory; theory; thing; thousand; three-year mission; thruster; Tiberian bat; tickling; toast; torpedo bay; torpedo launcher; torpedo room; touch; tour; translation; transporter pad; transporter range; transporter room; trash; trial; truth; universal translator; universe; Ursva; value; vessel; viridium patch; volunteer; Vulcan; mind meld; walking; warp drive; warrior; weapons locker; web; week; wisdom; Wise, D.; witness; wood; word; worker; wound; year; Z-axis; Zelonite

democracy; economics; employment; gunboat diplomacy; prerogative

Arc; Bayard, D.; Brookshire, R.; Cantemessa, G.; Downer, J.; Flinn, D.M.; Garretson, K.; Glover, K.; Hulett, D.; Jaffe, S.C.; Michaels, M.; Morey, R.; Narita, H.; Rodis, N.; Sector 21185; Sector 21290; Sector 21399; Sector 21803; Sector 21835; Sector 21837; Sector 22849; Sector 22956; Sector 23006; Tathwell, D.; Thomas, C.; Wise, D.; Zimmerman, H.

