






Arvan Carrick


Biographical information

Homeworld
Phaeda[1]



Descriptive information

Species
Human[2]


Gender
Male[2]


Pronouns
He/him[1]


Hair color
Brown[2]


Eye color
Brown[3]


Skin color
Light[2]



Family information

Family
Carrick family[4]


Partner(s)
Reiva Carrick[4]


Children
Zayne Carrick[4]4 daughters[4]



Chronological & political information

Affiliation(s)
Telerath Interstellar Banking Initiative[5]Jedi Enclave[3]


[Source]


Arvan Carrick was a Human male banker from the planet Phaeda who lived during the era of the Mandalorian Wars. Married to Reiva Carrick and father of five children, Carrick had one son, Zayne, who was accepted for Jedi training at the age of five. While Carrick worked for years at a bank on Phaeda, Zayne learned the Jedi ways on the planet Taris, until a fateful event in 3964 BBY. Zayne's entire class was massacred by their Jedi Masters, with Zayne the only one to escape. On the run, Zayne was scapegoated for the crime, becoming one of the most wanted men in the galaxy.

Never believing that his son was guilty, Carrick was soon transferred to the resort world of Telerath, the corporate crown jewel, a move that Carrick suspected had something to do with Zayne's plight. After only a few weeks, Carrick found himself reunited with his son, who was on Telerath to retrieve a sum of money stored in a frozen account belonging to his "accomplice," Snivvian criminal Marn Hierogryph. Carrick was kidnapped by a pair of Ithorian bounty hunters known as the Moomo Brothers, whom the Jedi Master Raana Tey had hired to keep an eye on Zayne's father, although Zayne quickly rescued him from the bumbling hunters' ship. Afterward, Carrick helped his son and Hierogryph obtain the money and later moved to work at the Jedi Enclave on Dantooine at his son's request.

A Human male[2] native of the planet Phaeda,[1] Arvan Carrick worked as a banker in the era of the Mandalorian Wars.[2] At some point, Carrick married a woman named Reiva, with whom he had five children, including four daughters—their third child, and only son, Zayne, was born in 3982 BBY. The boy showed Force potential from a young age, and just after Zayne's fifth birthday, he was brought to the Jedi Enclave on Dantooine in the hopes he would be accepted for Jedi training.[1] Although Jedi Master Vandar Tokare confirmed that Zayne only had a marginal proclivity with the Force, he was impressed with the way the child formed kinships with those around him, and so allowed the boy to be brought into the Jedi Order.[4] By 3964 BBY, Zayne had become a Padawan stationed at the Jedi Tower of the planet Taris, where he trained under Master Lucien Draay.[6] Carrick, who continued to work at his bank in the meantime,[7] stayed in touch with his son, visiting him on at least one occasion.[6]

That year, Carrick completed his Jedi training, and all that was left was to find out whether he would be promoted to the rank of Jedi Knight. The five Jedi Masters of the Jedi Tower set up a banquet and a private ceremony for the occasion, and although Carrick and his wife were invited to the meal, they were unable to attend.[6] At the ceremony, four of the five Padawans in the Taris Jedi class were murdered by their Masters; Zayne, late to the proceedings, was the only one to escape. Zayne became a convenient scapegoat for the massacre and went into hiding as one of the most wanted fugitives in the Galactic Republic.[4] Back home on Phaeda, Carrick and his family never believed that Zayne was responsible. A couple of weeks after news of the massacre broke, Carrick was suddenly transferred, after years of working at the same bank without notice, to the planet Telerath. The corporate crown jewel[2] and subject of the Telerath Interstellar Banking Initiative,[5] Telerath was not only a banking world but a resort world as well, where customers stayed in a luxurious setting while meeting one-on-one with representatives. Carrick arrived on Telerath ahead of the rest of his family and began working as a "personal dispute resolution advocate."[2]

After only a short time on Telerath, Carrick was assigned a very interesting case—a pair of Arkanian Offshoots, "Chantique" and "Baron Margryph," were claiming that the baron's account had been frozen due to his name's similarity to that of Marn Hierogryph, a Snivvian criminal who was alleged to be Zayne's accomplice. While Carrick tried to resolve their case, he was suddenly set upon by the Ithorian bounty hunters known as the Moomo Brothers, whom Jedi Master Raana Tey, one of those responsible for the Padawan Massacre, had hired to keep tabs on the man. Directly defying Tey's order to simply watch him, the Moomos kidnapped Carrick. Carrick's new clients gave chase but were unable to catch the Moomos—however, Carrick was shocked to see his son, Zayne, there too, trying to rescue him from the bounty hunters. Ultimately, the Moomos escaped with Carrick, bringing him to their ship, the Moomo Williwaw.[2]

Once on the ship, Carrick was tied up and left in the cargo hold to be watched by Del Moomo. Meanwhile, Zayne and Marn Hierogryph, who was also on Telerath, hatched a plan to free Carrick. Hierogryph met with Dob Moomo at a nearby cantina to arrange an exchange: Zayne for his father. As the meeting went on, Zayne sneaked into the Moomo Williwaw and freed his father from his bonds. By then, a drunken Del had stumbled back to the ship to get Carrick. When Hierogryph showed up with a hooded man pretending to be Zayne, Del realized something was afoot and began to argue with his brother—Zayne hit the brothers with an object using telekinesis and, after the brothers began fighting, took the opportunity to escape with his father. The group all returned to the ship Zayne was using, The Last Resort, where Carrick learned the whole story. "Chantique" and "Baron Margryph"—the latter of whom had posed as Zayne during the escape—were actually named Jarael and Camper and had been traveling with Zayne and Hierogryph since shortly after the massacre. Still on the run, the group was on Telerath to attempt to withdraw a sum of money that had been in Hierogryph's frozen account. Zayne had no idea that his father was working on Telerath, and it was pure chance that he had been assigned to their case.[3]

With the immediate danger behind them, Carrick was able to access the account. At his son's request,[3] Carrick transferred a portion of Zayne's share to Shel Jelavan, a friend of his from Taris whose brother had been killed in the massacre.[8] After learning that Raana Tey had hired the Moomo Brothers to go after his father, Zayne suggested that Carrick go to Dantooine, where he believed that the family would be safer from attack from the rogue Jedi Masters. Although initially reluctant, Carrick assented to the idea and found himself welcomed with open arms by Master Vandar Tokare. Sympathetic to the Carrick family's situation, Tokare set Carrick to work managing the Jedi Enclave's finances.[3] Carrick continued to work for some time as Tokare's accountant, eventually looking into the Draay Trust—the financial trust that held the fortune of the Draay family, which included Zayne's former Master, Lucien Draay—at Tokare's behest. Carrick found a great deal of previously unknown wealth in the trust, which Tokare suspected could have been used to create Jedi shadow agents loyal only to the Draays.[9]

Zayne was eventually able to clear his name and opted to pass up an opportunity to return to the Jedi Order in favor of going into business with his friend, Marn Hierogryph. Carrick's son also had another project in mind—an idea he dubbed the Rogue Moon Project, an organization meant to aid refugees, wrongly accused fugitives, and other individuals without hope. To this end, Carrick helped manage his son's finances, investing money that Zayne brought in from a con on the Metellos Exchange auction house and from a bounty collected on the head of the "Corellian Strangler," Toki Tollivar. This money funded a headquarters for the Rogue Moon Project, hidden in a warehouse on Coruscant.[10]

In the aftermath of his son's alleged crimes on Taris, Arvan Carrick and the rest of his family refused to believe that Zayne was responsible and, furthermore, if he was responsible, figured that he had been forced to do that of which he was accused. Although Carrick was deeply affected by his son's predicament,[3] he hid it as well as he could while working on Telerath.[2] His transfer to Telerath came as a big surprise to Carrick—he figured that it had to have something to do with his son, not believing that he had been noticed on his own merit.[3] As a representative, Carrick was very polite to his clients and tolerated "Baron Margryph's" repeated furious outbursts. Carrick was helpless against the Moomo Brothers and was easy prey to be kidnapped. While being ushered to the Moomo Williwaw, Carrick was absolutely stunned to see his son, Zayne,[2] who later rescued him. Carrick was initially reluctant to move to Dantooine as Zayne suggested but agreed anyway, trusting that his son's idea was prudent for the safety of the family. Carrick had light skin with brown hair and eyes, wearing a mustache during his time on Telerath.[3]

Arvan Carrick first appeared in Star Wars: Knights of the Old Republic: Reunion, the third story arc of the Knights of the Old Republic comic series, written by John Jackson Miller and released from December 2006 to January 2007.[2][3] Carrick had been mentioned in previous installments of the series as the father of protagonist Zayne Carrick,[6][4] but he was not identified as Arvan Carrick until Reunion. In the two issues of Reunion, Carrick was drawn by two different artists, Brian Ching[2] and Harvey Tolibao.[3] Carrick went on to be mentioned in several later Knights of the Old Republic issues.[9][10]

