






Baheeoo


Descriptive information

Species
Gigoran[1]


Hair color
White[1]


Eye color
Blue[1]



Chronological & political information

Affiliation(s)
Nihil[1]


[Source]


Baheeoo was a Gigoran Nihil marauder who was part of the crew of the Gaze Electric, Eye of the Nihil Marchion Ro's flagship. In 232 BBY, they and the Nihil Garank and Ordo raced across the Gaze Electric to relay Ro's command to change course to the planet Trymant IV. Wanting to reach the bridge first, Garank threw Ordo onto Baheeoo and fled as the pair tumbled to the ground. To make up time, Baheeoo and Ordo mounted a Bogaranth creature and rode it to their destination. Upon their arrival at the bridge, Garank was killed when they were eaten by the Bogaranth, which caused the other two Nihil to lament over their loss.

Afterward, Baheeoo traveled to Trymant IV with other Nihil aboard the Spider Cruiser Squall Spider to rescue Elder Tromak. While there, the Gigoran followed Ro's directive and helped attack the Jedi on the world, who were trying to rescue the planet's civilians.

The Gigoran Nihil marauder Baheeoo was part of the crew of the Gaze Electric[1]—the flagship[2] of Eye of the Nihil Marchion Ro—during the High Republic Era, as one of a small group of Nihil permitted aboard.[1] In 232 BBY, Ro orchestrated a collision between the Byne Guild freighter Legacy Run and an obstacle that resulted in the Great Hyperspace Disaster, which spurred Emergences—pieces of hyperspace debris—emerging from space and impacting celestial bodies throughout the galaxy.[3] After being informed one such Emergence would threaten several locations in the Trymant system, Ro decided to travel to the planet Trymant IV.[1] The Storm[2] Zagyar tried to relay the command to the bridge, but after finding that the comms on the Gaze Electric were inoperable, instead sent the Nihil Baheeoo, Garank, and Ordo to immediately alert the ship's captain to the change in plans.[1]

Motivated by Zagyar's threat to throw the last Nihil who arrived out an airlock, the three Nihil rushed from the back of the Gaze Electric toward the bridge, unsure if they would arrive in the short amount of time Ro expected. Garank pointed to the side and huffed in Gamorrean, confusing Baheeoo as the Gigoran did not speak the language. When Baheeoo looked to see what Garank was gesturing to, the Gamorrean picked up Ordo and threw the Talpini's body against the Gigoran, knocking both over. Garank then fled and left the pair behind, intent on reaching the Gaze Electric's bridge first. Baheeoo and Ordo decided to take a risky shortcut through the pen holding the ship's Bogaranths—bloodthirsty creatures that ate anything in their path. While Garank continued running toward the bridge, the other Nihil pair mounted a Bogaranth and rode it to the same destination, causing a crowd of Nihil to dive out of their way in fear as they passed.[1]

Upon arrival, Baheeoo called out after spotting Garank, though their Bogaranth then ate the Gamorrean. The Talpini restated Baheeoo's comment to refer to the now-deceased Garank in the past tense, while Baheeoo lamented that being eaten must have hurt. The pair rushed in to inform the captain to set a new course. The Pantoran was surprised at their arrival and ordered the crew to enter Trymant IV's coordinates, and Baheeoo and Ordo were informed shortly afterward by another Nihil that the Nihil Grik had just fixed the comms. As the Gaze Electric jumped to hyperspace, the Nihil on the bridge listened to an incoming holographic message from Ro, who promised the Nihil would gain incredible powers over the Galactic Republic and their destiny awaited at their next destination.[1]

Later, Baheeoo joined the Nihil traveling on the Spider Cruiser Squall Spider to Trymant IV to evacuate Elder Tromak,[4] due to his knowledge of the location of a relic that Ro sought.[2] Under Ro's directive, the Nihil attacked the Jedi Masters Torban Buck and Yoda, as well as the Padawans with them, who were on the world trying to evacuate civilians and save them from the impending disaster. At one point, Baheeoo launched themselves over a ledge and used their weapon to fire off an explosive, heated projectile. However, before it could land, Yoda jumped above his fellows, cutting the projectile in two. Eventually, Ro and what remained of his Nihil fled Trymant IV aboard the Squall Spider, escaping the Jedi Vector blockade in the planet's skies.[4]

When informed only the first Nihil to reach the Gaze Electric's bridge would not be thrown out an airlock, Baheeoo was extremely motivated to make it there in time. Though Garank left the Gigoran and Ordo after pushing them to the ground, the latter pair stayed together as they tried to reach their destination. Though Baheeoo was nervous about riding a Bogaranth due to how dangerous they were, they nevertheless mounted one with Ordo. After seeing Garank get eaten by the Bogaranth they were riding, Baheeoo expressed their sympathies, even though the Gamorrean had been willing to leave them behind in order to beat them to the bridge.[1]

When Ro ordered his Nihil to kill all the Jedi present on Trymant IV, Baheeoo loyally followed his commands.[4] The Gigoran had white hair and blue eyes.[1]

Baheeoo was physically fit, able to run for long distances. The Gigoran could also ride a Bogaranth, despite the creatures being dangerous and hard to handle.[1] Baheeoo could wield projectile weaponry and attacked Jedi with it on Trymant IV.[4] While they spoke and understood Galactic Basic, they did not understand the Gamorrean language.[1]

While on the Gaze Electric, Baheeoo wore a light blue breathing mask attached to a grey backpack via tubes.[1] Later, on Trymant IV, the Gigoran wore a brown harness and wielded a long, staff-like weapon bearing an orange projectile on the end.[4]

Baheeoo first appeared, albeit unidentified, in the second issue of the 2021 comic series Star Wars: The High Republic Adventures, released as part of the Star Wars: The High Republic multimedia project's[4] Phase I.[5] The issue was written by Daniel José Older, illustrated by Harvey Tolibao and Pow Rodrix, and published by IDW Publishing[4] on March 3, 2021.[6] The Gigoran was then identified by name in "Tales of Villainy: The Gaze Electric," a secondary comic story published in the sixth issue of the 2020 Star Wars Adventures anthology comic-book series. The story was written by Older, illustrated by Nick Brokenshire, and published by IDW Publishing[1] on July 7 of the same year.[7]

When designing the color scheme for the comic story, Brokenshire aimed to reference the style of Star Wars comics from the 1970s and 1980s, when there was limited color technology and panels still needed to visually pop. As such, the Gaze Electric and its crew—including Baheeoo—were colored in this style, though the artist noted that the colors may not necessarily be meant to reflect reality.[8]

