






Bogga


Biographical information

Homeworld
Nal Hutta[1]



Descriptive information

Species
Hutt[1]


Pronouns
He/him[1]


Eye color
Yellow[2]



Chronological & political information

Affiliation(s)
Bogga's criminal empire[1]Bogga's enforcer gang[2]


[Source]


Bogga was a Hutt crime lord who operated out of the Stenness Node in the years leading up to the Great Sith War. Bogga was the head of a criminal empire that encompassed the Stenness system, and led an enforcer gang that was feared throughout the area. In 3999 BBY, Bogga received word that a Jedi Knight possessing valuable Adegan crystals had landed on the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal, where the Hutt often dwelt. Desiring the jewels, Bogga sent several of his enforcers to obtain them. The Jedi Knight, Andur Sunrider, was slain in the ensuing struggle, forcing his wife, Nomi, to take up his lightsaber and strike down two of Bogga's henchmen, while depriving the third of the crystals. Bent on obtaining the gems, Bogga followed the woman in his sail barge to the desolate planet Ambria, where she was to deliver the jewels to the Hutt's sworn enemy, a Jedi Master named Thon. Bogga was again foiled when Thon and his apprentice, Oss Wilum, defeated the Hutt and his crew.

Bogga subsequently returned to his stronghold on the moon Vo Dasha, although he remained committed to exacting revenge on Thon and obtaining the Adegan crystals. In the meantime, Bogga loaned a security crew to protect an Ithullian ore hauler, a ship that was under the threat of attack by pirates. The pirates were defeated, and their leader, a being named Finhead Stonebone, was captured and brought to Vo Dasha in chains. Bogga decided to spare Stonebone's life on one condition: that Stonebone would journey to Ambria, kill Thon, and obtain the crystals. Stonebone consented to the arrangement and left for Ambria. However, this third attempt to obtain the crystals failed like the previous two, as Thon and the newly trained Jedi Nomi Sunrider defeated Stonebone in a pitched battle.

Bogga the Hutt was born on the planet Nal Hutta and lived in the years leading up to the Great Sith War. He grew to become a powerful and feared crime lord who operated mainly out of the Stenness system in the Inner Rim Territories. Bogga also assembled a group of pirates, thugs, and gangsters that terrorized the area of space under his control. At its height, the Hutt's criminal empire branched out six parsecs in every direction. Bogga maintained a private residence on the Stenness moon Vo Dasha and frequented the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal space station.[1]

At some point in time, Bogga made a trip to the desolate Stenness Node planet Ambria, where he found a hssiss dragon in a dark side–infused lake. He named the beast Ktriss and made it his pet and familiar, often using her to threaten his enemies or underlings that had failed him.[3] In 3999 BBY,[4] several members of Bogga's gang informed him that a starship that was on its way to Ambria with a shipment of valuable Adegan crystals had stopped on the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal. Bogga had a client that would pay a grand sum for the crystals[2] and felt that he could not afford to miss this opportunity, as an influx of capital could potentially enable him to overtake several star systems closer to the Core Worlds.[1] He ordered three of his underlings, Gudb, Quanto, and Rek, to retrieve the cargo. However, the Hutt advised caution, as the ship, the Lightside Explorer, was owned and operated by a Jedi Knight, Andur Sunrider.[2]

Bogga's thugs accosted Sunrider on the Stenness Hyperspace Terminal docking bay, where the Jedi was accompanied by his wife, Nomi; his baby daughter, Vima; and his protocol droid, A-3DO. While Rek and Quanto distracted Sunrider, Gudb released his pet gorm worm, Skritch, who fatally bit the Jedi on the neck. Taking up her fallen husband's lightsaber, the grieving Nomi slew Quanto and then Rek, forcing Gudb to flee back to Bogga without the crystals. Bogga brought the rest of his enforcers and followed the Lightside Explorer in his sail barge, the Twilight Sailer.[2]

The chase brought Bogga and his crew to Ambria, where Sunrider had gone to find Jedi Master Thon. While in the skies above Ambria, and after threatening to let Ktriss kill and devour Gudb, Bogga gave Gudb another chance and sent him with a team of enforcers to the surface of Ambria to retrieve the crystals while he remained in orbit. The enforcers boarded the Lightside Explorer, only to find that the Adegan crystals were not on board. However, Gudb discovered that the prize was at Master Thon's compound, along with Nomi Sunrider.[2]

Gudb relayed this news to Bogga, who ordered his convoy to travel to Thon's compound. Upon reaching Thon's home, Bogga spied a herd of staga beasts and told his underlings to slaughter the animals for food. While Bogga and his lackeys worked, they were confronted by a single Jedi, the Vultan Oss Wilum, Thon's Padawan. Outnumbered, Wilum was quickly defeated, and Bogga ordered Gudb to execute the Jedi. Suddenly, Gudb was interrupted by a large beast—revealed to be Thon himself—that attacked and decimated Bogga's group. Realizing that they had no chance of survival if they stayed and fought, Bogga's crew fled the encounter.[2]

Some time after the failed raid on Ambria, Bogga was paid a fortune by Gruna, the captain of an Ithullian ore hauler, to protect his ship from pirates. Bogga sent him a security detail that was put to work when the ship was attacked by ore raiders. However, Bogga's henchmen were quickly and easily killed by the pirates, who were led by an individual named Finhead Stonebone. Although the pirates believed that they had captured the vessel, Bogga's enforcers surprised them by dropping out of hyperspace in the Hutt's dreadnaught, Enforcer One. The group captured Stonebone and his ship, the Marauder Starjacker, transporting them to Bogga's private moon, Vo Dasha. At the time, Bogga was sitting on his throne alongside Ktriss, berating Gudb for failing to obtain the Adegan crystals. Receiving word that the pirates had been brought to Vo Dasha, Bogga ordered his servants to bring Stonebone and the other pirates before him. Bogga threatened Stonebone at first, then told him that his crimes would be overlooked if he killed Thon and retrieved the crystals. However, Stonebone refused. An angered Bogga decided to release Ktriss on the prisoners, and the beast devoured Stonebone's First Mate, Roko.[5]

As Ktriss ate the remains of Roko, Stonebone decided to accept Bogga's offer. Pleased by Stonebone's submission, the Hutt ordered the pirate to carry out his mission at once.[6] Bogga also ordered Gudb to accompany them and gave him chains capable of subduing even a Jedi.[3] Finhead Stonebone took a group of his pirate associates and several of Bogga's enforcers along with him to Ambria, where they broke into Thon's compound and retrieved the Adegan crystals. On their way back to their ship, however, the group was interrupted by the arrival of Thon and Jedi trainee Nomi Sunrider. Stonebone and the pirates were promptly attacked and chased off by the two Jedi, and Stonebone limped back to Bogga without the Adegan crystals, with Thon suspecting that Bogga would humiliate the pirates even more for their failure.[6]

Bogga was a ruthless, unscrupulous Hutt who chose to make his living through crime. He commanded the respect of his enforcers and was widely feared throughout the Stenness Node, but would quickly berate and threaten his underlings if they failed him in any way. Bogga held respect for the Jedi Knights' abilities, although he did not hesitate in ordering Gudb to kill Andur Sunrider.[2] The Hutt often started sentences in his native Huttese language.[5] Additionally, Bogga often referred to himself in the third person.[6] He developed an obsession with Andur Sunrider's Adegan crystals and sanctioned repeated missions to retrieve them at any cost.[5] He also developed a deep and unrelenting hatred toward Master Thon, referring to him a "lowly beast" and ordering Finhead Stonebone to kill him.[6] Bogga fawned over his pet, Ktriss, and it could almost always be found by his side. The crime lord often threatened to unleash Ktriss on both enemies and underlings who had failed him. Bogga preferred to be addressed with ornate and elaborate titles, such as "Great and Well-Proportioned Bogga" or just "Great Bogga." He also called himself "The Merciful One" and saw a compassionate side to himself. Because of this, Bogga decided to spare Finhead Stonebone, despite his hatred of Stonebone's pirate gang.[5]

Bogga smoked a hookah pipe. Bogga owned the sail barge Twilight Sailer[2] and the dreadnought Enforcer One.[5]

Bogga first appeared in the third issue of the Tales of the Jedi comic book series, which was written by Tom Veitch, illustrated by Janine Johnston, and published by Dark Horse Comics[2] on December 21, 1993.[7] Bogga was voiced by Bud Thorpe in[3] the 1995[8] Tales of the Jedi audio drama, based on the comics written by Veitch and adapted by John Whitman.[3]

