






Boorka


Biographical information

Died
22 BBY,[1] Tatooine[2]



Descriptive information

Species
Hutt[1]


Gender
Male[1]


Pronouns
He/him[1]


Skin color
Green (Backside)[1]Light brown (Face and abdomen)[1]



Chronological & political information

Affiliation(s)
Hutt Cartel[1]


[Source]


Boorka was a male Hutt crime lord who operated on the planet Tatooine around 22 BBY. Around the time of the outbreak of the Clone Wars between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, Boorka received information from Bogeega Bu'Daay, an operative on the planet Eredenn Prime, about a new series of superweapons that the Republic was building known as the Decimators. Boorka made it known that the information was available to the highest bidder and his offer was soon taken up by the Confederacy, who sent a contingent of its droid army led by General Sev'rance Tann to Tatooine.

Boorka agreed to trade his information to the Separatists if they destroyed a Republic spaceport near the city Mos Osnoe. The spaceport was interfering with the profits of the Hutt Cartel, a criminal organization that Boorka was a part of, and the Separatist army was able to accomplish the task. Boorka then gave his information to the Separatists, leading them to ultimately gain control of the Decimators and take over the Republic energy-producing planet Sarapin. When the Republic retook Sarapin, Jedi General Echuu Shen-Jon discovered that the Hutt Cartel had knowledge of General Tann's location, and Shen-Jon soon learned that Boorka had begun a partnership with the Separatists and had allowed them to set up a secret trade operation on Tatooine. The Jedi led his army to attack Boorka's forces, killing the Hutt in the process and removing the Separatists from Tatooine.

Boorka was a male Hutt and was a crime lord based on the planet Tatooine with ties to the Hutt Cartel. Around the time of the outbreak of the galaxy-spanning conflict known as the Clone Wars, which was fought between the Galactic Republic and the Confederacy of Independent Systems, a Cartel operative named Bogeega Bu'Daay contacted Boorka from the planet Eredenn Prime, having discovered secret intelligence relating to a Republic superweapon known as the Decimator that members of the Wookiee species were developing. Bu'Daay told Boorka everything that had been unearthed about the Decimator, such as its weapon and shielding capabilities, assuring the Hutt that he could use the knowledge to his advantage. Boorka told Bu'Daay to continue observing the Decimator research, but the Wookiees working on the superweapon discovered the operative and intercepted the transmission, preventing any further observations.[1]

Boorka then made it known that he had information about a secret Republic superweapon and was willing to sell it to the highest bidder. His offer was accepted by Separatist forces under the Dark Jedi General Sev'rance Tann, who had been ordered by the Confederate leader Count Dooku to retrieve the information by any means necessary. Tann arrived on Tatooine with a small part of the Separatist droid army, which she led to Boorka's Palace near the city of Mos Osnoe. Boorka had some of his men hide along the path to ambush Tann's army, but the battle droids defeated and killed them. Upon Tann's arrival at Boorka's Palace, the Hutt commented that he liked her military leadership, and then began explaining his terms for the Separatists to acquire the secret intelligence in his possession. Boorka stated that the Republic had set up a spaceport outside of Mos Osnoe to benefit from the Outer Rim trading profits to help pay for the war, but the spaceport was interfering with the Hutt Cartel's own profits. Therefore, Boorka told Tann that he would give her the information if her army destroyed the spaceport; after Tann's forces defeated the Republic garrison of clone troopers around the spaceport and destroyed it, Boorka gave her his knowledge of the Decimator and its production on Eredden Prime.[1]

Boorka continued his partnership with the Separatists and ran credits and supplies to them through a hidden base established on Tatooine. Using the Hutt's intelligence, the CIS were able to seize the Decimators and used them to capture the Republic energy-producing planet Sarapin. In response, the Republic sent Jedi General Echuu Shen-Jon and his Padawan Naat Reath to retake the planet, and during the battle, Confederate Officer Zian Finnis told the Jedi that the Hutt Cartel had knowledge of Tann's location. Intending to catch Tann for killing Stam, his first Padawan and Naat's brother, Shen-Jon led his forces to Tatooine and met with another member of the Cartel, Jabba Desilijic Tiure, who was also one of Boorka's rivals. Jabba told the Jedi of Boorka's alliance with the Separatists and informed them of their hidden base, an operation that enraged Jabba, as it competed with his own. Shen-Jon agreed to destroy the way station, but Jabba refused to be seen fighting a fellow Hutt, leaving the Republic forces to confront the Separatists on their own.[1] The Republic army attacked Boorka's hideout and killed the Hutt,[2] and also obliterated the Separatist way-station. As a reward for eliminating his competitor, Jabba gave Shen-Jon 500 nova crystals, a type of mineral used as currency throughout the galaxy.[1]

Boorka was willing to sell the information on the Decimator to the Separatists in order to make a profit. He had no issue with placing his henchmen in the path leading to his palace to test the Confederate army, allowing them to be killed. After seeing her skill as a military leader, the Hutt complimented Sev'rance Tann of her abilities. Boorka had a strong rivalry with Jabba Desilijic Tiure, which ultimately led to his demise when Jabba informed the Republic of Boorka's operation. When spending time at his palace, Boorka kept a small entourage with him, including both a Twi'lek male and female, several Gamorrean guards, a Weequay guard, one droid, several Jawas, and an Aqualish. Boorka spoke the Huttese language, and had green skin on his backside, no hair and light brown skin on his face and abdomen.[1]

Boorka the Hutt first appeared in Clone Campaigns, the 2002 expansion to the 2001 PC video game Star Wars: Galactic Battlegrounds, in which he was voiced by Clint Bajakian. Boorka appears in the third level of the Separatist campaign, entitled "Perilous Dealings," where the player commands the Separatist forces and destroys the Republic spaceport to secure a deal with Boorka. He later appears in the third level of the Republic campaign, "Never trust a Hutt," during which the player leads the Republic forces and can kill Boorka as an optional side quest. An entry in the game's databank shows a transmission between Boorka and Bogeega Bu'Daay, revealing how he came to find out about the Decimator's existence. Boorka's in-game sprite was the same as that of Jabba the Hutt.[1] In 2009, Boorka was mentioned in The Clone Wars Campaign Guide, which stated that the Republic forces slew him.[2]

