

Cady


Biographical information

Born
c. 56 BBY[1]



Descriptive information

Species
Human[2]


Gender
Female[2]


Pronouns
She/her[2]


Hair color
Dark brown[2]



Chronological & political information

Affiliation(s)
Czerka Corporation[2]Pijali monarchy[2]


[Source]


Cady was a human female enslaved by the Czerka Corporation during the Republic Era. At some point, the company brought her into the service of the Pijali monarchy on the Inner Rim planet Pijal. By 40 BBY, Cady had become a key attendant and trusted confidante of the Pijali Princess Fanry. Cady helped Fanry plot a revolution against the Czerka Corporation, which included devising a fake assassination attempt on the princess with a slicer dart to instill fear in Pijal's lord regent, the Jedi Rael Averross. Cady accompanied Fanry on the ruler's ceremonial Grand Hunt, sabotaging a crab droid to attack her princess as part of their scheme to frame the Opposition, a political performance troupe, for increasingly violent activities.

Cady helped the princess prepare for her coronation, an event that ultimately ended in the pair escaping the Pijali palace's Celestial Chalice after Fanry's violent seizure of absolute power resulted in the injury of Deren, the ruler's loyal royal guard captain. Cady initially believed that Fanry would cease the practice of slavery on Pijal after becoming queen. However, she quickly realized that Fanry only cared about her own power when the ruler did not agree to help free the enslaved workers revolting on the Leverage, a Czerka Corporation cruiser. After Cady helped depose the recently crowned queen, Pijal installed a new democratic Assembly to govern the planet, headed by Governor Orth. Cady accepted Orth's offer to enroll in the school of her choice, selecting a leadership academy on the Core Worlds planet Alderaan.

Cady, a human female, was born[2] around 56 BBY[1] and eventually became enslaved by the Czerka Corporation. During the Republic Era, the company brought her into the service of the Pijali monarchy on the Inner Rim planet Pijal. Under Pijal's lord regent, the Jedi Rael Averross, Cady performed cleaning duties on Czerka ships and attended to any other requests made of her.[2] By 40 BBY,[1] Cady had become a key attendant and trusted confidante of the Pijali Princess Fanry.[2]

Fanry privately loathed Averross's close association with and support of the Czerka Corporation, a company she felt was exploiting Pijal. As a result, the princess conscripted Cady's assistance in staging a revolution against Averross's aspiration to make her a constitutional monarch with little to no power. To gather information about Averross's activities, Fanry ordered Cady to stay in his presence or her own most of the time. Cady was made aware of Fanry's plans to frame the Opposition, a political performance troupe, for increasingly violent attacks against Czerka facilities that were actually committed by blackguards, a secret division of royal guards loyal only to the princess.[2]

As Fanry's blackguards continued executing attacks on Czerka, Jedi Master Qui-Gon Jinn and his Padawan, Obi-Wan Kenobi, were sent to Pijal to investigate. Now operating under the watchful eyes of the Jedi, Fanry devised a fake assassination attempt on herself to frame the Opposition for its first violent initiative against the Pijali monarchy, which Cady carried out. The attendant acquired a slicer dart, a device capable of temporary mind control, and planted it in the windowsill of her princess's Pijali palace quarters.[2]

When Cady tripped the palace's alarms, Fanry's screams hurriedly summoned Jinn, Kenobi, and Averross to the princess's chambers. The ruler asked Cady if she had seen anything, prompting her attendant to present the slicer dart to Fanry and Averross, claiming she had found it lodged in the windowsill after the attack. Cady suggested to Fanry and the Jedi that the attack may have been aimed at her so that the dart's nanotechnology would force her to assassinate the ruler. Believing the fabricated attack to be legitimate, Averross began to worry about Fanry's safety, growing more fearful over time.[2]

At some point before Pijal's ceremonial Grand Hunt, Cady, under Fanry's orders, sabotaged the event's prey, a crab droid, by giving it orders to kill the princess. Cady later attended the Grand Hunt with Fanry, carrying a basket of luxuries for her ruler. During the event, the droid Cady had sabotaged attacked Fanry, further leading Averross to believe that the Opposition was becoming increasingly violent. After the trying event, Cady escorted the princess back to the palace and ensured that she had not been harmed. The next day, under heavy security, Cady attended a rally with Fanry in Pijal's capital city dome.[2]

Cady helped Fanry prepare for her upcoming coronation, offering reassurance that the event would result in positive change. During the coronation, which was held in the palace's Celestial Chalice, the princess stabbed the Skykeeper, Pijal's religious leader, with the ceremonial sword used in the ceremony. After completing her seizure of power as an absolute monarch, the newly crowned Queen Fanry publicly decried democracy. With the crowd stirred into an excited turmoil, Cady, Fanry, and Deren, Fanry's loyal royal guard captain, activated kohlen crystal shields around themselves. However, using his kohlen crystal–powered lightsaber, Kenobi breached Deren's shield, cutting the man open. The sight of the injured guard prompted Cady and Fanry to escape through the Chalice's roof by using ascending cables to climb into a royal troop dropship, leaving Deren, the injured Skykeeper, and Pijal's court jeweler behind.[2]

After Cady and Fanry boarded the Righteous, the recently renamed flagship of Pijal's royal fleet, a 2-1B surgical droid removed Cady's slave-tracking chip. Cady then informed Fanry that the Czerka Corporation's Sector Supervisor, Meritt Col, still held command of the Leverage, a Czerka Corporation cruiser. Although Fanry was displeased to learn that Deren had failed to kill Col at the coronation, she and Cady agreed to rectify the error. Not long after, Fanry accepted a hologram call from Jinn on the Righteous, which Cady attended with her princess. Fanry, who had been intending to attack the Leverage using her flagship, was surprised to learn from Jinn that the enslaved workers stationed aboard the Czerka cruiser were revolting against their handlers.[2]

Cady initially believed that Fanry would cease the practice of slavery on Pijal after becoming queen. However, Cady quickly realized that Fanry only cared about her own power when the ruler insisted on commencing her assault on the Leverage, despite the innocent lives still on board. She helped depose Fanry from her position by holding the recently coronated queen at blaster-point until she surrendered. Afterward, Pijal installed a new democratic Assembly to govern the planet, headed by Minister Orth, who took the post of governor. Cady accepted Governor Orth's offer to enroll in the school of her choice, selecting a leadership academy on the Core Worlds planet Alderaan.[2]

As an enslaved Czerka Corporation servant, Cady held great contempt for her handlers. She held hope that Princess Fanry's revolution against Czerka and Pijal's lord regent, Rael Averross, would end the practice of slavery on Pijal. Outwardly, Cady presented herself as a dutiful and loyal attendant, becoming Fanry's close confidante. Cady was willing to engage in deception to pursue her goal of ending slavery, including lying to Averross and instigating violent plots conceived by her princess. She also cared for Fanry's needs, believing that the monarch's work would result in her own freedom.[2]

Although Cady was thrilled to be freed from Czerka after Fanry's coronation, the attendant's loyalty to the princess evaporated upon realizing the ruler only cared for her own power, and she helped depose the recently crowned queen. After the revolution, she exercised her newfound freedom to attend the school of her choosing. Governor Orth considered Cady to be an intelligent individual and hoped that she would return to Pijal someday. Cady had long, dark-brown hair that fell past her shoulders. During her time as an enslaved worker on Pijal, she possessed a youthful appearance.[2]

On Pijal, Cady usually performed simple cleaning tasks and attended to Princess Fanry's welfare. However, she was also was skilled in subterfuge. Cady carried out several of Fanry's plans to frame the Opposition for violence against the Pijali monarchy and the Czerka Corporation, including fabricating an assassination attempt on the princess with a slicer dart and convincing Rael Averross of the attack's legitimacy. Having some technical knowledge, Cady proved able to sabotage the crab droid used in the Grand Hunt, remaining undetected despite the heavy security in the area.[2]

While owned by the Czerka Corporation on Pijal, Cady wore gray coveralls bearing the symbol of the Pijali monarchy. She kept her hair tied back with a practical piece of cloth while attending to cleaning duties. As a slave, Cady had a tracking chip embedded under the skin of her hand. In the palace, she proved able to procure a slicer dart to plant in Fanry's windowsill for use in one of the princess's revolutionary plots.[2]

At Queen Fanry's coronation, to escape from the Celestial Chalice, Cady used an ascending cable attached to a harness to ascend into a dropship. After the coronation, while aboard the Righteous, Cady's slave chip was surgically removed by a droid, and she donned a black-colored Pijali blackguard uniform. Cady also acquired a blaster, which she later used to help depose Fanry from her position as queen.[2]

Cady appeared in Master & Apprentice, a 2019 novel written by Claudia Gray.[2]

