

Cohbo'rik'ardok


Biographical information

Homeworld
Rentor[1]


Born
61 BBY[2]



Descriptive information

Species
Chiss[1]


Gender
Female[1]


Pronouns
She/her[1]



Family information

Family
Kivu family[1]Irizi family[3]Cohbo family[3]


Partner(s)
Bomarmo (husband)[3]


Sibling(s)
Mitth'raw'nuruodo[3]



Chronological & political information

Affiliation(s)
Chiss Ascendancy[1]Sky-walker corps[1]Seekers program[3]


[Source]


Cohbo'rik'ardok, known by the core name "Borika," born as Kivu'rik'ardok with the core name "Vurika," was a Chiss female. Born in 61 BBY into the minor Kivu family on the planet Rentor, Vurika was taken from her family to become a sky-walker navigator, a Chiss navigator with abilities that allowed her to guide Chiss starships through the Unknown Regions, in 56 BBY. Joining the sky-walker corps cut her ties to the Kivu family, and she became Rik'ardok. After her abilities faded, she joined the Chiss Ascendancy's Irizi ruling family, becoming Irizi'rik'ardok "Zirika". As an adult, she worked with and trained the sky-walkers at the Seekers program facility on the astronomical object Thearterra.

Soon after, she married Bomarmo of the Cohbo family, becoming Cohbo'rik'ardok. The couple settled on the planet Ool, where they owned the Ardok Ranch. She worked closely with the Seekers' Shadehouse, a Seekers program facility on Ool. In 18 BBY, Caregiver Mitth'ali'astov "Thalias" traveled to the Ardok Ranch to speak with Borika. The pair discussed the sky-walkers' training, and Thalias eventually revealed why she had come to the ranch—she wanted to meet Borika because she was the sister of Senior Captain Mitth'raw'nuruodo "Thrawn". Thalias was set to return to the Ascendancy's capital planet of Csilla, and Borika dropped her guest off at the Ibbian Spaceport, where she was able to catch a transport back to the capital. Weeks afterward, Thalias returned to Ool with Che'ri—the sky-walker in her care—in order to help Borika and the Seekers program gain a better understanding of the sky-walkers.

Born in 61 BBY[2] on the Unknown Regions planet of Rentor, one of the Chiss Ascendancy nation's worlds, Kivu'rik'ardok, core name "Vurika,"[3] was a female member of the Chiss species and a member of the minor Kivu family.[1] In 56 BBY,[2] at the age of five, Vurika was taken from her family and joined the sky-walker corps, a group of young girls who had abilities known as Third Sight that allowed them to navigate the treacherous space outside of the Ascendancy's borders. As all sky-walkers lost ties to their families when they joined the corps,[1] she became known as Rik'ardok.[3] She left behind her parents and younger brother—Kivu'raw'nuru "Vurawn"—on Rentor.[1] As part of her training, Rik'ardok's memories of her family were wiped,[3] and the siblings' parents did not tell Vurawn where her sister was for several years, prompting him to believe that she had died. Years later, Vurawn joined the ruling Mitth family and became Mitth'raw'nuru "Thrawn", joining the Chiss Expansionary Defense Fleet. He soon attained bridge rank and finally learned about the sky-walker corps, realizing that Vurika had likely become one.[1]

Most sky-walkers' abilities faded in their mid-teenage years, prompting the fleet to run tests with them inside Ascendancy borders, where there was no imminent danger of travel in hyperspace, to determine if they could still navigate Chiss starships.[1] Rik'ardok's Third Sight eventually faded, and she joined the ruling Irizi family, adopting the name Irizi'rik'ardok "Zirika". Whereas most sky-walkers decided to forge a new life after they joined a family and left the life of a navigator behind, Zirika chose to work with the Seekers program.[3]

The goal of the Seekers program was to train the young girls who were inducted into the sky-walker corps and prepare them for duty with the Expansionary Defense Fleet. As an adult, Zirika worked at the Thearterra center, a Seekers facility located on the astronomical object Thearterra. After Thrawn told the Mitth Syndic Mitth'ras'safis "Thrass" that he had lost his sister, the syndic searched for the Chiss officer's sister. Thrass eventually found Zirika and visited her, compiling a data cylinder with information on the woman and the Seekers program.[3]

Sometime afterward, Zirika met Bomarmo of the Cohbo family, and the two eloped; as a result, Zirika joined Bomarmo's family, adopting the name Cohbo'rik'ardok "Borika". The pair settled on the Ardok Ranch on the planet Ool, where Borika continued her work with the Seekers program at the Seekers' Shadehouse on the ranch.[3] In 18 BBY,[4] the Chiss Caregiver Mitth'ali'astov "Thalias" of the Expansionary Defense Fleet heavy cruiser Springhawk, which was commanded by Thrawn, who had become a Senior Captain, visited Ool to speak with Borika. After arriving at the ranch, Thalias asked the Cohbo woman about the Seekers' Shadehouse and learned that that was not its official name. As Thalias was not supposed to know about the program, Borika invited her guest inside and leveled a charric—a handheld Chiss weapon—at her, instructing the caregiver to show her her identification.[3]

As Thalias carried no identification, she revealed that she was a former sky-walker herself, a claim Borika dismissed, as sky-walkers had not become caregivers for a hundred years. The caregiver then explained that Mitth Senior Aide Mitth'iv'iklo "Thivik" had given her Syndic Thrass' data cylinder, handing Borika the device. As the dates the cylinder contained matched those of the syndic's visit, the Cohbo allowed Thalias to continue. The caregiver told the Cohbo that the Springhawk's sky-walker, Che'ri, had interacted with an alien called the Magys, who had been able to extend the girl's Third Sight but also had given her nightmares.[3]

Thalias continued to tell Borika about the Magys and Che'ri, often gazing around the room, prompting Borika to remark that the other may have been remembering the room. She explained that if the caregiver had spent time at the Seeker's Shadehouse during her training, she had definitely spent time in the room they occupied—although the training records were locked away. The Cohbo offered to look into Che'ri's interactions with the alien and recommended that Thalias request a reassignment to Ool, an offer the caregiver declined, as the Ascendancy was about to break into a civil war. Borika also offered that the other could stay at an inn in the city of Pomprey if the caregiver wished to wait for a response from the Seekers program.[3]

As Borika dodged Thalias' questions about her lost memories of her training and family, the caregiver revealed that she had come to Ool for two reasons: to meet Borika and to tell her that she was Thrawn's sister. After verifying that fact with Thrass' information, the Cohbo claimed that former sky-walkers were not supposed to know about their pasts, as too many girls would have quit the program due to homesickness. Thalias deduced that the Seekers program erased the memories of the sky-walkers to eradicate the issue, and Borika informed her that the fading process was not perfect, sometimes leaving glimpses of a sky-walker's earlier life.[3]

Thalias questioned why memories of their training were also wiped if the objective was to eliminate the sky-walkers' family attachments, for which Borika did not have an answer. Shortly after, Thalias received a call from the Springhawk's first officer, Mid Captain Ufsa'mak'ro "Samakro", who asked her to return to the capital planet Csilla immediately. Borika offered to drop her guest off at the Ibbian Spaceport, allowing her to catch a transport back to Csilla. Before they arrived at the spaceport, the caregiver commented that it was unfortunate that Borika would not be able to come to the Springhawk and meet Thrawn, prompting the Cohbo to cry and remark that there was no point, as her memories about her brother had faded.[3]

Weeks later, Thalias and Che'ri traveled to Ool and met with Borika. The Cohbo had been given the entire story of Che'ri's dealings with the Magys and their effects on the girl and assured the pair that the Shadehouse was looking into it. Not wanting to stay at the ranch, Che'ri questioned why she could not return to the Springhawk; however, Borika stated that sky-walkers were rare enough and that Che'ri was the most unique of them all. The Cohbo woman comforted the young girl by saying that what she helped the Shadehouse learn could make important changes for every sky-walker in the future after Thalias explained that Che'ri had to tell Borika and the Shadehouse everything about her interactions with the Magys.[3]

Although most sky-walkers left the life of navigating behind when they joined a Chiss family, Borika returned to work with the Seekers program to help train and study the young sky-walkers.[3]

Despite the oddity surrounding Thalias' arrival at the Ardok Ranch, Borika kept a cheerful tone when greeting her. She also teased the woman when asked if she was formerly of the Irizi family, asking if Thalias was trying to make a list of all former-Irizi, as Thalias was of the Mitth, rivals to the Irizi. As Thalias began to speak, she kept her friendly tone, with an edge of caution, eventually displaying her full caution by raising a charric to Thalias. Although she did not remember her brother, Borika teared up at the idea of meeting him.[3]

Borika wore coveralls and boots along with a jacket. She also hung a questis data-link reader from her side, which was connected to a shoulder strap.[1]

Cohbo'riki'ardok was first mentioned, albeit unidentified, in the 2020 novel Thrawn Ascendancy: Chaos Rising, the first installment of Timothy Zahn's Star Wars: The Ascendancy Trilogy.[1] She made her first appearance in the 2021 novel Thrawn Ascendancy: Lesser Evil, the final installment of the trilogy, which identified her as Cohbo'rik'ardok, Borika, Kivu'rik'ardok, and Irizi'rik'ardok.[3]

