

Star Trek Beyond

FLM 13, AR 3


Release date: 22 July 2016


← 13th of 14 Star Trek films →


← 729th of 949 released in all →







Written by
Simon Pegg & Doug Jung


Directed by
Justin Lin


Produced by
J.J. Abrams, Bryan Burk, Jeffrey Chernov, David Ellison, Roberto Orci


In-universe date
← Alternate reality: 2263.2 (2263) 








No ship, no crew. The frontier pushes back.

After stopping off at Starbase Yorktown, a remote outpost on the fringes of Federation space, the USS Enterprise, halfway into its five-year mission, is destroyed by a powerful, unstoppable wave of unknown aliens. With the crew stranded on an unknown planet and with no apparent means of rescue, they find themselves in conflict with a new ruthless enemy who has a well-earned hatred of the Federation and what it stands for.

In early 2263, on the planet of Teenax, Captain James T. Kirk is negotiating a treaty between the Teenaxi Delegation and the Fibonan Republic who are long-term enemies. He presents a piece of an ancient weapon as a gesture of goodwill, but the Teenaxian leader asks where it comes from. When Kirk says the Fibonans acquired it a long time ago, the Teenaxians accuse the Fibonans of stealing the artifact. The Teenaxians (who turn out to be quite small creatures compared to Humans), attack Kirk. As a result, he flips open his communicator and urgently asks Montgomery Scott that he be beamed up. He is eventually evacuated to the USS Enterprise, accidentally taking two Teenaxians with him. Walking down a corridor in his torn uniform, Kirk is followed by Spock and Leonard McCoy. Kirk asks his first officer to log the artifact in the ship's archive vault. "Jim, you look like crap," McCoy says. Kirk sarcastically thanks the doctor. When McCoy asks the captain if he is all right, Kirk replies, "Never better. Just another day in the fleet."

The stardate is 2263.2. It has been nine hundred and sixty-five days since the USS Enterprise began its five-year mission. The Enterprise docks at Starbase Yorktown, an extensive deep space colony containing a large city, to replenish dwindling supplies while the crew takes shore leave. Struggling to find continued meaning in his duties as captain, and becoming increasingly affected by thoughts of the death of his father, George Kirk, Kirk applies for a promotion to vice admiral.

Meanwhile, Spock and Nyota Uhura deal with a time-out in their relationship; Hikaru Sulu reunites with his husband Ben and their young daughter; and Montgomery Scott struggles to keep the ship operational. Spock is also distraught to find that his alternate reality counterpart has recently passed away.

An escape pod is found drifting out of a nearby nebula and its occupant, Kalara, claims her ship is stranded on the planet Altamid, which is located past the dangerous, unexplored nebula that will block communications with Starfleet. In a meeting with Yorktown's commanding officer Commodore Paris, Kirk volunteers the Enterprise for the rescue mission, and they get through the nebula with some difficulty, and eventually arrive at Altamid, which Spock finds to be a sparsely-populated class M world. Not long after arrival, the Enterprise comes under attack from a swarm of thousands of small, heavily-armed alien ships. Kirk orders a counterattack, but the Enterprise is overwhelmed by the enemy's sheer volume and strength; the ship's phasers, navigational deflector, and warp nacelles are destroyed within minutes.

With the Enterprise crippled and helpless, several of the attacking ships breach the hull, and a boarding party commanded by the swarm's leader, Krall, boards the ship. They make their way to the ship's vault, and on the way there Krall captures and drains the life force from several Enterprise crewmen, leaving them as withered husks. Scott attempts to restore power to the ship's impulse drive by feeding it from the warp core, but Krall orders the swarm to resume its attack. They destroy the neck section of the Enterprise, separating the saucer and engineering hulls, and leaving the saucer powerless due to Scott's modifications, leaving no way of switching over to the saucer's reserve power without a separation. Spock and Dr. McCoy are in a turbolift car that is ejected into space and subsequently captured by a swarm craft, but they managed to get into the craft and overpower its occupants.

Krall arrives at the ship and attempts to get to the vault to take the artifact from the Enterprise's mission from Teenax. However, Kirk gets to the artifact first and gives it to Ensign Syl before ordering the crew to abandon ship. As the separated engineering hull begins to disintegrate, most of the crew escape in escape pods, only for the swarm ships to capture them and drag them back to the planet. Seeing this, Scott fires himself out of the ship in a advanced long-range torpedo casing.

Kirk goes to separate the saucer from the neck but Krall attacks him before Kirk can initiate the separation. Uhura goes on to separate the saucer and gets left behind with Krall in the neck section while Kirk is on the saucer side.

Kirk reaches the bridge, which by now is occupied only by Sulu, Chekov, Kalara, and a few other crewmen. However, Chekov reports that the saucer is too badly damaged to keep in orbit, and will crash within minutes. Kirk orders the remaining crew to abandon the ship by Kelvin pods once it enters the atmosphere (though everyone except for himself, Chekov, and Kalara are also captured), and is the last person to leave the Enterprise. Moments later, the saucer crashes into a mountain range, and what remains of it crash-lands in a field, embedding itself into the earth.

Scott, who has landed elsewhere, is saved from some of the planet's unruly inhabitants by an alien scavenger named Jaylah and taken to her makeshift home, which he discovers to be the wreckage of the USS Franklin, which went missing almost one hundred years prior. Meanwhile, the swarm craft hijacked by Spock and McCoy crash-lands on the planet, badly injuring Spock and forcing McCoy to perform some very hasty surgery in order to save his life.

After discovering that the alien artifact originated from the planet on which they had crash-landed, Spock reveals to McCoy that he is reconsidering his place in Starfleet after Spock Prime's death. The two are then attacked by the swarm only to be saved by Scott, who has repaired the Franklin's transporter system.

Meanwhile, Kirk and Chekov force Kalara to admit she lured the Enterprise into a trap, claiming that Krall promised to return her crew to her in exchange for the Enterprise and her own crew. With their tricorders having insufficient range to locate the rest of the crew, the trio board the crashed saucer in order to use its sensors. Kirk pretends to go to retrieve the artifact in a corridor and Kalara turns on him and reveals that her "crew" never existed; she's been in league with Krall from the very start. Fortunately, Kirk had seen through her, and Chekov rescues him as more of Krall's troopers arrive. Outnumbered and trapped, Kirk ignites the fuel tank for the saucer's maneuvering thrusters, which allows them to escape, but also causes the saucer to flip over, killing Kalara and the troopers, and causing the fuel tanks to explode, leaving the mostly-destroyed saucer as all that remains of the USS Enterprise.

Meanwhile, Krall demands the artifact, threatening to kill Sulu if he does not get it. Syl relents and gives Krall the artifact, which he reveals to be the final component of a weapon called the Abronath that attacks organic tissue and which he intends to unleash on Starbase Yorktown. Krall then tests the weapon on Syl, dissolving her completely in the process.

When the group consisting of McCoy, Spock, Scott, Kirk, Chekov, and Jaylah has ascertained the location of the captured crew through Uhura's vokaya amulet, the group formulates a plan to infiltrate Krall's base. Jaylah is initially fearful of this, remembering the death of her family at the hands of Krall and his people, but Scott and Kirk are able to persuade her to help out.

As Krall departs for Starbase Yorktown, Kirk, McCoy, Spock, and Jaylah rescue the crew before repairing the Franklin and also setting a course for the starbase. Spock and McCoy beam aboard an attacking drone ship and discover a way to disrupt the drones' cohesion, allowing the Franklin and the starbase to destroy much of the drone fleet using discordant noise on a very high frequency (VHF), provided courtesy of Jaylah's collection of "classical" late 20th century music.

After a brief battle between the swarm and Yorktown's defenses, Krall still manages to board the starbase despite the Battle of Yorktown, which eventually culminates in the Franklin intercepting his ships in a maneuver near the starbase's central control complex.

As they look for him, Uhura learns from the Franklin's video logs that Krall's original name was Balthazar Edison and that he was born Human. Before his sudden disappearance, Edison had been the captain of the Franklin. He had been declared missing in action by Starfleet, and had ended up crashing onto Altamid, which was a former mining colony of an alien species known as the Ancient Ones, who had left drone equipment and other technology behind. Edison, and at least two of his crewmates, had used the remains of this technology to prolong their lives, and to build new military vessels. However, the use of the life-extension technology had also rendered the former members of the Franklin unrecognizable as Humans because they acquired some of the biological attributes of the other species they lured for their consumption.

Once Krall/Edison is on board the Franklin, he steals a command division Starfleet uniform and reverts to a mostly Human appearance after draining the life force from several more Enterprise crewmembers, healing the injuries he suffered when his ship was crushed.

Krall/Edison prepares to deploy the bioweapon, leading to a chase through the base. Kirk confronts Krall/Edison in the life support hub, and they fight in anti-gravity and weightless conditions in the life support section of Yorktown. Krall/Edison expounds his theory that Humanity needs to be in a state of conflict in order to progress, and that the Federation has stifled this process by bringing about peace in large areas of the galaxy. The fight ends with both Krall/Edison and the Abronath bioweapon being ejected into space, where the Abronath devours him.

Kirk is rescued from suffering the same fate by Spock and McCoy in their hijacked drone. Kirk tells Spock he doesn't know what he would do without him, causing him to contemplate his decision to leave Starfleet.

Commodore Paris closes the unsolved cases of the fate of Captain Edison and the crew of the USS Franklin. She commends Kirk for his actions and informs him that his promotion to the admiralty is assured. However, Kirk respectfully declines the offer, his experience having rejuvenated his spirit to be a Starfleet officer, stating that "admirals don't fly". Remaining a starship captain, Kirk allows McCoy to lead him to a gathering where McCoy has planned a surprise birthday party for his friend. At a loss for words, Kirk instead raises a toast to the late starship Enterprise and to their fallen comrades. Spock allows himself a look at some of Ambassador Spock's personal effects and finds a photograph of him and his prime reality comrades on the bridge of their Enterprise.

Reminding himself of his earlier discussion with Dr. McCoy, Spock elects to live as his alternate self did and remains serving in Starfleet. Kirk offers his condolences on Ambassador Spock's passing to his friend, which Spock accepts and begins to renew his relationship with Uhura. A despondent Jaylah, also present at the gathering, has consumed a large number of alcoholic beverages, which she had been told would "take her edge off", but is clearly not having much of an effect. Hoping to boost her spirits, Scott presents Jaylah with an acceptance letter into Starfleet Academy, courtesy of a few strings pulled by Kirk, who also warns her that Starfleet has many rules but not to follow all of them.

As Kirk and Spock look out of a massive window, they view the construction of a new starship. Considering the perils that had befallen the Enterprise and her crew since they were first assembled five years earlier, McCoy questions whether or not they really should go back out into space. As the starship finishes construction, its primary hull proudly displays her name and registry: USS Enterprise (NCC-1701-A). Kirk, Spock, Scott, McCoy, Sulu, Chekov, and Uhura can be heard taking turns paraphrasing Zefram Cochrane:

"To perfect eyesight and a full head of hair."


"You guys break up? What'd you do?"
"A typically reductive inquiry, doctor."
"You know Spock, if an Earth girl says, uh, 'it's me, not you', it's definitely you."


"I am Lieutenant Nyota Uhura of the USS Enterprise. And you have committed an act of war against the Federation."
"Federation?! Federation is an act of war."


"Your captain... why did you sacrifice yourself for him?"
"He would have done the same. And if he made it off that ship, he will come for us."
"I am counting on it, Lieutenant Uhura."


"Yeah, I say it hurts less when it's a surprise."
"If I may adopt a parlance with which you are familiar, I can confirm your theory to be "horseshit"."


"Come now, Montgomery Scotty."


"Leaving me behind will significantly increase your chances of survival, Doctor."
"Well that's damn chivalrous of you, but completely out of the question."
"It is imperative that you locate any surviving crew."
"Here I was thinking you cared."
"Of course I care, Leonard. I always assumed my respect for you was clear. The dialogue we have had across the years has always..."
"It's okay, Spock. You don't have to say it."
[McCoy and Spock are surrounded by three of Krall's drone ships]
"Well, at least I won't die alone!"
[Spock is beamed out from behind McCoy]
"Well that's just typical."


"This is where the frontier pushes back."


"You're part of something bigger now, lassie. Right? Dinnae give up on that. 'Cause we'll sure as hell never give up on you. That is what being part of a crew is all about."


"What happened to you out there, Edison?"
"Ed-i-son? I have to say, Kirk, I missed being me. We lost ourselves, but gained a purpose! A means to bring the galaxy back to the struggle that made Humanity strong."
"I think you're underestimating Humanity."
"I fought for Humanity! Lost millions to the Xindi and Romulan wars. And for what? For the Federation?! To sit me in a captain's chair and break bread with the enemy!"
"We change. We have to. Or we spend the rest of our lives fighting the same battles."


"You lost. There's no way for you to make it back there! Give up!"
"What, like you did?! I read your ship's logs, Captain James T. Kirk. At least I know what I am! I'm a soldier!"
"You won the war, Edison. You gave us peace!"
"Peace... is not what I was born into."


"You... can't stop it. You will die."
"Better to die saving lives, than to live with taking them. That's what I was born into."


"To the Enterprise... and to absent friends."


"You really want to head back out there, huh?"


"Space. The final frontier."
"These are the voyages of the starship..."
"...Enterprise. Its continuing mission..."
"...to explore strange new worlds..."
"...to seek out new life..."
"...and new civilizations...
"...to boldly go where no one has gone before."

The film takes place two-and-a-half years into the characters' five-year mission, [1] when the USS Enterprise is attacked by the Swarm and the crew is marooned on an unknown world as a consequence. They gain an ally in Sofia Boutella's alien warrior, Jaylah. [2]

Idris Elba plays the Swarm's leader, Krall, who detests the Federation's philosophy and opposes its introduction to the wider galaxy. [3] Elba said, "There's definitely an opposing argument to the good that the Federation think they do. There are purists that believe in independence, and believe that we're all made differently for a reason, and will fight tooth and nail to defend that. There's massive relatability to modern world politics in that sense." [4]

J.J. Abrams had stated he would like more female characters in the sequel. [5] He also mentioned the sequel could fall back on abandoned story ideas for the characters. "There was [an idea] implying the sexuality of one of the characters, a back story for another character that was pretty intense, a really funny story we wanted to do with yet another. Hopefully, if there are future films, those other stories will get their moment," he said. [6] Roberto Orci has voiced support for having a gay character. [7]

William Shatner was contacted about a possible role in the film. Along with Shatner, Leonard Nimoy had been rumored to appear, in a scene with Chris Pine and Zachary Quinto, as the future alternate reality versions of the characters. [8] In the wake of Nimoy's death on 27 February 2015, Simon Pegg mentioned there would be some tribute to the late actor in the final film. [9] On 27 May 2015, Pegg mentioned that it was possible Shatner could portray Kirk again at some point, [10] but Shatner confirmed he would not appear and he never discussed it. [11] Shatner's Kirk and Nimoy's Spock appear in the film in a still handled by the actor Zachary Quinto.

Zoë Saldana stated she would dislike it if Spock and Uhura broke up, describing that possibility as potentially "heartbreaking" for her. Concerning the film's action quotient, she speculated, "I'm pretty sure that for this third installment, we'll be able to sort of [...] be more hands-on." [12] Lin said their relationship will be consistent and acknowledge what came before. [13]

Bruce Greenwood expressed hope that Christopher Pike could return, which he referred to as a "deep, deep wish to come back." Although Pike dies in Star Trek Into Darkness, Greenwood suspected Khan Noonien Singh's revitalizing blood could be used to bring Pike back to life. As a result, he confirmed, laughing, that he would be interested in reprising the role in "Star Trek III: The Search for Pike", an in-joke reference to the title of Star Trek III: The Search for Spock. In a serious manner, Greenwood related he would be interested in further resolution to the relationship between Pike and Kirk. (Star Trek Magazine Special 2015, p. 21) In reference to Kirk, he concluded, "Whatever happens in the third film, it will give the audience a sense of progression and change; an arc and a character that's really growing with them." (SciFiNow, issue 80, p. 26)

On 2 February 2015, the on-line movie and television news site FilmDivider.com reported that, for the new Star Trek film, three new major female roles would be cast. One of them would be the President of the United Federation of Planets, one would be a starship captain, and the third would be an ex-wife of Doctor McCoy, who was to be depicted as having several former wives. The male villain would be a Bryan Cranston-like type and the website also stated that Cranston was in talks with the studio. All this proved to be false. [14]

The working title for this sequel was "Washington" and "Washington Project". [15] [16] [17] On 21 April 2015, TrekMovie.com announced that Star Trek Beyond "may be the title" of the film. [18] The title was later confirmed by Director Justin Lin. [19]

Producer Bryan Burk commented that Paramount wanted the third film to take less time to produce than Star Trek Into Darkness took, and that 2016 – the 50th anniversary of Star Trek – would be a logical year to release it. [20] Roberto Orci and Alex Kurtzman added that Paramount insisted on a 2016 release date. [21]

J.J. Abrams, who directed Star Trek and Star Trek Into Darkness, chose to direct Star Wars Episode VII, and accordingly only produce this film. [22] Abrams noted, "Having directed pilots and movies and then having seen subsequent directors work on those shows or do their own versions of those films – time and again I have seen it done better." [23] Patrick McKay stated, "Bad Robot, J.J., and his team are really at the heart of this movie's development. They are the guiding light by which we all do our work. J.J.'s been a key part of helping us spin this tale from the beginning, and if there are people who think that we've lost him to Star Wars this time around, that's not the truth as far as we see it." [24]

In an interview published on 6 May 2013, Michael Giacchino expressed he was open to return to score the film, saying, "I'd be happy and honored to do another if that was in the future." [25]

In August 2013, then-writing partners Zack Stentz and Ashley Edward Miller pitches to J.J. Abrams a story with an antagonist who "...was more a 'noble adversary' a la Balance of Terror than another Khan. There was also Dyson Sphere [sic] and an ancient, Lovecraftian menace to the galaxy." [26][27]

In September 2013, J.J. Abrams acknowledged rumors that Rupert Wyatt could helm the sequel, stating, "He's incredibly talented, and we'd be lucky to have someone as talented as Rupert. But there are things we're focusing on right now before the director, which is just sort of the fundamentals of where the story is gonna go." [28]

On 2 November 2013, it was reported that Attack the Block director Joe Cornish was Paramount's choice to direct the film, though reports differed as to whether or not he had already begun negotiations to join the project. According to Variety, Cornish was offered the film once before, in May 2013, but had turned it down. [29] [30] [31] Abrams voiced his support for Cornish, stating, "I don't know if [he] is the guy. My guess is that's up in the air. I adore him and love him and can't wait to see what he does next. Hopefully, it will be Star Trek." [32]

On 6 December 2013, it was announced that up-and-coming screenwriters J.D. Payne and Patrick McKay would be writing the script alongside Roberto Orci. It was also announced that Alex Kurtzman would not be involved with the project, due to work on The Amazing Spider-Man movies and other projects. [33]

In February 2014, J.D. Payne explained they were trying to come up with a classic Star Trek storyline, where "You should respond to this opportunity that the crew has that also has some pitfalls to it [....] It's sort of the Adam and Eve thing, where should we eat the fruit or not eat the fruit? Well, there are some very compelling reasons why they should and why they shouldn't. So, [there are] similar kinds of things here that really give the whole movie an opportunity to sort of play with that, and have people come down on different sides and wrestle with it." [34]

In April 2014, it was revealed Roberto Orci had been lobbying to direct the film, but Paramount was reluctant to allow him, as he had never directed before. However, Bad Robot and Skydance Productions were supportive. [35]

At the US premiere of Star Trek Into Darkness on 2 May 2013, Damon Lindelof hinted that the prospect the Klingons would declare war on the Federation would come to fruition, and that Benedict Cumberbatch would return as Khan Noonien Singh. [36] However, Lindelof was not involved with the sequel.

Later in May 2013, Paramount relented to Roberto Orci's appeals, offering him the director's chair. [37]

In an interview published on 29 June 2014, Patrick McKay implied the film may not have a villain, explaining that, while he loved Star Trek II: The Wrath of Khan, he also loved the other films "that have a little bit more of the character relationships and the humor and some more of the speculative sci-fi elements." [38]

In July 2014, Roberto Orci clarified that he was not technically directing the film until Paramount approved the script. [39] On 9 August 2014, Orci proclaimed he had finished a first draft of the script. [40] On 27 August 2014, he revealed that the casting process for other characters had begun. [41]

On 18 September 2014, Zachary Quinto stated he expected the film to start shooting within the next six months. [42] The next day, it was confirmed that shooting would begin in February 2015, with a summer 2016 release date. An official announcement was to be made soon thereafter with a specific release date. [43]

As the domestic gross of Star Trek Into Darkness (which stood at US$228.5 million) was less than the first film, Paramount made the decision to film the sequel outside Los Angeles to save money. "We're making it for what it should have been shot for last time if we had made it outside of L.A., which we would have done except that [J.J. Abrams] didn't want to," a studio source told The Hollywood Reporter. "That was a $20 million issue." [44]

On 29 September 2014, Mayor Park Wonsoon confirmed he had met with the producers, including Jeffrey Chernov, and confirmed Seoul in South Korea as one of the filming locations for Star Trek Beyond. [45] According to TrekMovie.com, the film would be shot primarily in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, which would also be used for outside filming locations. [46]

Roberto Orci officially stepped down from directing the film on 5 December 2014. Orci remained attached the project as an in-name producer, but ceased to by involved in production. [47] While the film was without a director, Jonathan Frakes lobbied to be given the opportunity to direct the movie. (SFX, issue 270, p. 63)

On 22 December 2014, it was announced that Justin Lin had been hired to direct the film. [48] Two days later, it was announced that Roberto Orci would only produce the film and will no longer be involved in the writing process. [49]

A childhood fan of Star Trek: The Original Series, Lin was called by J.J. Abrams while filming the second season of True Detective. [50] After learning he was not beholden to any previous script, Lin decided to go "new and fresh. The Klingons, Romulans and other species are great, but it's time to go further. It has been fun to focus on creating whole new worlds and species." [51] Simon Pegg coined the title when he recognized Lin was trying to take Star Trek "beyond". [52]

On 21 January 2015, it was announced that principal filming would start on 15 April 2015 at Vancouver Film Studios in Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada. [53] It was also announced that Simon Pegg and Doug Jung would help write the film. [54] Jung came to stay at Pegg's house to co-write the script; whenever they felt they completed enough of the rewrite, they would pass time by watching episodes of the original show. [55] They also consulted Memory Alpha, with Pegg claiming "We actually wrote to the Memory Alpha guys and got them to name a certain device in the movie. I sent them a letter saying, 'Can you come up with this for me?' In two hours, they came back with an entire etymological history of what the thing was. It's beautiful. It's fantastic to have that support network." [56]

Simon Pegg commented Paramount felt Roberto Orci's script was "a little bit too Star Trek-y. Avengers Assemble [the release title of The Avengers in the United Kingdom], which is a pretty nerdy, comic-book, supposedly niche thing, made $1.5 billion. Star Trek Into Darkness made half a billion, which is still brilliant. But it means that, according to the studio, there's still $1bn worth of box office that don't go and see Star Trek. And they want to know why." Pegg described the rewrite as being akin to "mak[ing] a Western or a thriller or a heist movie, then populate that with Star Trek characters so it's more inclusive to an audience that might be a little bit reticent". [57]

Pegg also explained they wanted to mark the 50th anniversary by deconstructing the franchise. "I felt like it was important to really deconstruct the idea of Star Trek, the idea of the Federation and why it's special. We'll really be poking at a lot of different things." He also said, "We're gathering a great community within the galaxy, but to what end? What does it all mean?" [58]

The character of Jaylah was inspired by Jennifer Lawrence's portrayal of Ree in the 2010 film Winter's Bone. Pegg and Jung referred to her by Lawrence's nickname "J. Law", eventually inspiring the name "Jaylah". [59]

On 24 February 2015, it was reported that filming was pushed back to begin on 1 June 2015 and continue on until September. [60]

In March 2015, Stephen F. Windon was confirmed as the film's cinematographer, replacing Roberto Orci's choice of Claudio Miranda. [61] It was also confirmed that Nick Satriano had replaced the previously announced First Assistant Director Kim H. Winther. [62]

With the release of the official casting call, it was confirmed that shooting in Vancouver, B.C. would be starting on 15 June 2015 and continuing through 15 October 2015. To be considered being an actor, extra, or crew member on the new film, a legal eligibility for working in Vancouver was a requirement. Extras casting would get underway in May 2015. [63]

On 2 June 2015, it was reported that the first draft of the script had been finished. [64]

On 13 June 2015, Michael Giacchino said he had not yet talked to the makers of Star Trek Beyond about the prospect of him returning to Star Trek in order to compose this film. The reason no contact had been made was partly because Giacchino himself had been extremely busy but also "because they're in such a crazy schedule crunch [....] But I imagine that I will be talking to them soon about all of this, and we'll figure out what's going to happen next," he said. [65]

Deep Roy was confirmed to be returning as Keenser on 8 July 2015, having canceled a convention appearance for filming on Star Trek Beyond. [66]

On 11 July 2015, Michael Giacchino announced his participation in the movie by tweeting, "So thrilled to be working with Justin Lin and the rest of the Enterprise crew on Star Trek Beyond! Let's boldly go!" [67] [68] He commented that Beyond is not as gritty and earthbound as the previous two films, so the score would feel different. [69]

It was announced on 24 July 2015 that Joe Taslim had been cast in a key role opposite Idris Elba. [70]

On 7 August 2015, Joseph Gatt confirmed that the character he played in Star Trek Into Darkness, Science Officer 0718, would not be returning for Star Trek Beyond, due to script rewrites eliminating his role from the story. [71]

The Italian press reported on 24 October 2015 that former Chelsea, Juventus, Paris Saint Germain and Real Madrid manager Carlo Ancelotti had been cast to play a doctor. [72]

Bryan Burk observed, "In the beginning, you could see a palpable sense of excitement as the cast started to work with [Justin Lin]." (SFX, issue 270, p. 71)

Addressing the involvement of Roberto Orci and his co-writers John D. Payne and Patrick McKay, Justin Lin said on 14 December 2015 "The WGA has to figure it out, because I don't know who those writers are, I never met them. I came on, I had an idea and then Simon and Doug came on. I had one conversation with Orci after I came on, and that was it." [73]

While the first trailer credited Simon Pegg and Doug Jung, it also credited Roberto Orci, John D. Payne, and Patrick McKay. The second trailer only credited Pegg and Jung.

Due to Warner Bros. Pictures becoming Paramount Pictures, the copy of the Paramount logo that came from the film was replaced with a new copy of the logo on the DVD.

It was reported that filming was pushed back again and was to begin on 25 June 2015. [74]

On 25, 26, 29 and 30 June 2015, the production filmed scenes in Squamish Boulders, Squamish, British Columbia. Filming took place around the Kacodemon Boulder and Cave Boulder for the first three shooting days. On the fourth day, filming took place south of the Black Dyke Boulder. [75] The filming schedule was updated on 26 June 2015 and the first set photos as well as a sixteen-page filming permit contract went online. [76] [77]

On 26 June 2015, Executive Producer David Ellison revealed Dubai as a filming location. [78] [79] Three days later, Director Justin Lin revealed that the title was officially Star Trek Beyond, as well as releasing the first officially released set photo. [80]

On 19 July 2015, TrekCore reported some set photos from a large green screen build-up located at Kent Hangar Field, west of Vancouver International Airport. In addition, an enormous wooden construction was also spotted. [81] This location was later revealed as a filming location for War for the Planet of the Apes. [82]

Between 11 August 2015 and 13 August 2015, an open casting call for background roles was held by Miranda Davidson Studios at Dubai City Studio Soundstage, Building B, Ground Floor. [83] [84]

On 14 August 2015, several more set photos were published on the internet, backing the claim that a Federation starship crash landed on a planet. [85]

On 20 August 2015, the first set photos from the filming were published by ScreenRush.com. Several shots gave a detailed view of Sanja Milkovic Hays' newly designed Starfleet uniforms and also several shots of an alien character played by Sofia Boutella. [86]

On 22 August 2015, the Dubai Film and TV Commission (DFTC) announced an internship program which would run from 13 September until 15 October 2015. The organization meanwhile also confirmed Dubai was to be used as a filming location for Star Trek Beyond, in October 2015. [87]

On 27 August 2015 and 29 August 2015, Twitter users reported that Star Trek Beyond was filming at Triangle Road in Richmond, B.C. and at the Pitt River Quarries in Red Deer, B.C. [88] [89]

In October 2015, filming started in Dubai. Filming locations included the desert reserve Platinum Heritage and the Dubai Central Park Towers ground in front of the Central Park Tower and the Platinum Tower. [90] [91][92] [93]

During their filming in Dubai, several set photos were posted on Twitter, Instagram and other social media sites, including several images and videos of new alien species. [94] [95] [96] [97] [98] [99]

Principal filming wrapped in Dubai on Thursday 15 October 2015. [100]

On 11 March 2016, it was announced that reshoots would occur the following week. It was also announced that Shohreh Aghdashloo would be playing the "High Command of the Federation". [101] Reshoots wrapped up on 17 March 2016. [102]

In October 2015, Allociné, a French site for the dates of movie releases, reported that, in France, Star Trek Beyond will be released on 24 August 2016 and will be titled Star Trek sans limites. [110] In January 2016, Paramount Pictures France advanced the release date to 17 August 2016. [111] The release date in Belgium, Switzerland, and French-speaking communities in Europe was also 17 August 2016. The release date in Quebec and New Brunswick provinces and French-speaking communities in North America was 22 July 2016, the same date as the United States. [112]

Despite not being permitted the chance to direct this film, Jonathan Frakes has nonetheless made supportive comments about it. For example, in the lead-up to the movie's release, he has remarked, "I think Justin Lin is going to do a great job. I'm looking forward to that." (SFX, issue 270, p. 63)

On 14 July 2015, the cast of Star Trek Beyond announced "To Boldly Go", a charity campaign in partnership with Omaze to benefit nine different children's charities:

Those who donated would receive prizes, as well as a greater chance of winning a walk-on part in the film for them and a friend, depending on the amount they give. J.J. Abrams previously announced a similar campaign, "Force for Change", for Star Wars Episode VII. [113] Each week, two of the cast members announced a winner. [114] The winners included Audrianna Davis and friend Summer, [115] Amy and Karen Ackerman, [116] Steven and Nick, [117] Steve Lamb, Linda, and several others. [118]

Omaze reported on the set visit in late September 2015 [119] and announced Adam Horwitz as the winner of the walk-on role. [120]

A trailer for the film was released online on 14 December 2015, and premiered in theaters before Star Wars: The Force Awakens. [121] The trailer, which was set to the Beastie Boys' "Sabotage" as a callback to the 2009 film, drew a mixed response from fans as well as George Takei and Wil Wheaton. [122] Simon Pegg admitted to being surprised by the trailer, speculating "the marketing people [were] saying, 'Everyone come see this film, it's full of action and fun.' When there is a lot more to it than that. I didn't love it because I know there is a lot more to the film." [123]

A full-length trailer was released on 20 May 2016, to mixed reviews, but was better received than the teaser.

There is a four-issue comic book series titled Star Trek: Manifest Destiny, though it is not branded as an official prequel to the film like previous IDW Publishing comics Countdown and Countdown to Darkness.

Star Trek Beyond is the first film in the franchise not to have a novelization.

Collectible miniatures of starships from the film have been produced by Snapco and more are slated for release by Hallmark and Quantum Mechanix. Ben Robinson, the project manager of the Star Trek: The Official Starships Collection partwork magazine, has announced that Eaglemoss Collections will be producing a USS Enterprise and a USS Franklin from the film as special issues. Another Beyond starship design will also be produced. Additional starship miniature premiums will be included with Paramount Pictures' Amazon.com and Walmart home video releases.

Concept art showing the Franklin has been posted at TrekCore. [124][125]

On 13 March 2016, it was reported that Paramount had announced the film's international release dates. Thailand would be the first country to show the film, on 19 July 2016, and Argentina the last, on 1 September 2016. [126] [127]

On 27 March 2016, the first official still photo from the movie was released as part of USA Today's summer film preview. [128] [129] More photos were released later, including after the film's second trailer was released. [130]

A promotional single was released for the film in America, "Sledgehammer", by Rihanna. In China, a different track, "Lost in the Stars" was released by Chinese pop star Zhang Jie (aka Jason Zhang). [131]

The first official teaser poster for the film was released alongside the second trailer. [132] Soon after, character posters started being released. [133] The posters featuring Sulu and Uhura had to be re-released following a gaffe that placed their insignia on the wrong side of the uniform. [134]

Despite receiving reviews as positive as its two predecessors, Beyond underperformed at the US box office. It opened with US$59.2 million, behind the last two films, and almost a month after its release it only grossed US$196.9 million worldwide, compared to its US$185 million budget. [135] Beyond ultimately grossed US$158.8 million in North America, the lowest total of the three current Star Trek film series, though overseas it made approximately US$183 million, ahead of the first film. At a total gross of US$341.9 million, it was the least successful of the trilogy financially speaking. [136] Not only that, the total gross pitted against its production budget, made Beyond the second all-time worst performing film of the entire Star Trek film franchise in terms of profitability, only surpassed by Star Trek Nemesis. Ironically though, and unlike the latter, Beyond was well received by critics and fans alike, making it as of 2020 the fourth best-received film of the franchise, even beating out, albeit by the slimmest of margins, fan favorite Star Trek IV: The Voyage Home – that is, only in this regard as that film was a financial success for the studio.

The substantial loss suffered by the studio on the account of Beyond, played a major part in the cancellation decision in January 2019 of the fourth alternate reality film. [137]

The dismal box-office performance reflected itself in its resultant domestic sales of DVD and Blu-ray Disc home video formats, equally disappointing. According to the professional industry site The Numbers, the Beyond domestic home video sales (excluding the three-film combo releases) had by June 2020 totaled up to US$42.5 million in contrast to Star Trek's US$200 million and Into Darkness's US$80.5 million with an additional US$3.8 million for combo releases of the latter two titles. [138]

Forbes magazine argued that Paramount should have given the film a lower budget: "The thing that made [Beyond] most appealing to the fans, that it played like a smaller-scale 50th anniversary homage to the spirit and tone of the original show, was the thing that arguably doomed it in terms of blockbuster success. Star Trek Beyond was what its fans wanted it to be. There is value in that over the long run. But Paramount and friends need to realize that Star Trek is never going to be a Guardians of the Galaxy-level success and plan accordingly." [139] The Forbes commentary touched upon the circumstance that while "old guard" Star Trek fans did show up at the theaters, "new", and non-fans alike failed to do so, they at the time being offered a plethora of apparently more attractive (block buster) alternatives, those stemming from The Walt Disney Company by then owned properties in particular. These not only included the cited Guardians of the Galaxy and others from the  Marvel Cinematic Universe film franchise, but the productions from the in the meantime revived rival Star Wars franchise as well, as detailed in a later Forbes editorial. [140]

Additionally, the alternate reality film franchise had started to cause a rift between the "old guard" fanbase and newcomers to the franchise, with the former expressing their reservations about the alternate reality (re)incarnation, especially for its lack of "the Roddenberry factor", as Star Trek production staff veteran Doug Drexler had put it, [141](X) but which was present in Beyond, courtesy Director Justin Lin and Writer Simon Pegg, making it the trio's best received one by the [old guard] fanbase. Whereas newcomers on the other hand had flocked to the first two action packed films, precisely because it was fast paced fun and in line with similar fare offered to them by other franchises which catered to the current tastes of contemporary cinema goers (being coined "fun, popcorn movies" by former Star Trek production staffer Roger Lay, Jr. [142]), they apparently deemed Beyond as "too Trekkie" to their tastes. [143] [144]

Simon Pegg commented two years after the film's release that Paramount had poorly marketed the film, stating they had waited too long to release a full trailer and that they were afraid of mentioning the 50th anniversary. He also expressed anger at how the teaser ruined the use of "Sabotage" in the movie. [145](X) Pegg did not deviate from his opinions as he reiterated them in March 2020 to IndieWire in an even more outspoken fashion. [146] Incidentally, the studio appeared to have deemed the film "too Trekkie" as well, explaining their marketing decisions regarding the heavy emphasis on action and fun, as related above. Furthermore, Pegg himself came by and large to agree with the Forbes assessment when he at a later point in time – in the process expressing his own personal doubt on the continued existence of the alternate reality and/or the film franchise as a whole for that matter – stated to Collider,

"The fact is, the appeal of Star Trek is slightly more niche than the appeal of, say, the Marvel movies, which make huge amounts of money, and have this really, really broad appeal and they do very well. I think Star Trek is just a little bit more niche, so it isn't gonna hit those kind of numbers. So yes, the obvious thing to do would be to not go for that massive spectacle, go for something a little bit more restrained in the vein of the original series. Yes, that would be a brilliant thing to do, and I'm sure it probably has been discussed… You specialize a little bit more. (...) Maybe TV is a better place for [Star Trek] now. Television has evolved so much. It's become something which is very much a contemporary, a peer of cinema. It's simply viewed in a different way. It isn't a reduced scope anymore. You can still do masses of interesting things, and it can still look modern and not inexpensive. Maybe television is a better format for Star Trek. That's where it started, you know." [147]
What Beyond, or rather its poor box office performance, had abundantly and conclusively demonstrated though, was that the reliance on the traditional Star Trek fanbase alone for a motion picture production to become financially viable, was not enough due its relatively small numerical size of potential cinema visitors, especially from the 1990s onward when production costs exploded from double to triple digit millions of dollars, and arguably never had been. Any new Star Trek motion picture production, be it a film or a television production, especially those conceived from the 1990s onward, needed to attract a viewership that extended well beyond "Trekdom" alone, and which was something Paramount was actually already acutely aware of since Berman-era Star Trek. (A Vision of the Future - Star Trek: Voyager, pp. 139-140) It is this circumstance in particular that explained the ponderous and sluggish development of a projected fifteenth film; Paramount needs a film that is appealing to an audience as broad as possible, [148] the aforementioned Forbes admonishment notwithstanding – hence the resurfacing of the "too Trekkie" qualifier in regard to that projected film.

Star Trek Beyond received the following awards and honors.

2164; 2204; 2263; acid; Akima's species; Ancient Ones; Abronath; Altamid; Armstrong-type (starship); Attack on Krall's base; Attack on Yorktown; away team; backseat driver; barn dance; base of operation; Battle of Altamid; Beastie Boys; bed; bedside manner; bee; birthday; birthday party; Book (device); bread; camouflage; Federation cargo shuttle (cargo shuttles); cauterization; classical music; cliff; closed network; closet; coat hanger; Code 1-Alpha-Zero; color; commodore; compression chamber; Constitution-class (starship); Co-Co's species; crash landing; critical alert; cyberpathic link; dark ages; dilithium chamber; distress call; doodad; Earth-Romulan War; EPS; EPS conduit; Enterprise, USS; Enterprise-A, USS; enhancement sequencing unit; environmental processor; episode; escape pod; excellency; excrement; fan; favoritism; Fibonan; Fibonan High Council; Fibonan Republic; Federation archive; "Fight the Power"; fire; five-year mission; Franklin, USS; Freedom-class; Gagarin Radiation Belt; General Council; gift; Glenfiddich; goggles; goo; green; headband; hell; Hewlett Packard Enterprise; horse; horse and buggy; horseshit; IFF; image refractor; inertial dampener; Jaylah's drinks; Jaylah's family; Jaylah's species; Jaylah stick; Kalara's crew; Kalara's escape pod; Kalara's ship; Kelvin pod; Kevin; Kirk, George; Kirk, Winona; Krall's base; Krall's command ship; language analysis; locker; Lordy; Magellan probe; Manas' language; manual override; manual release room; medical school; megahertz; memorial; military; military service; Military Assault Command Operations; monorail; monstrosity; mortality; murder; Natalia; nebula; Necro Cloud; Necro Cloud sector; New Vulcan; Non-Federation; optimism; Park; polarized hull plating; police; protoplaser; Public Enemy; pulse phaser cannon; puncture; PX70 motorcycle; Quarantine (device); quarters; radio; refractor belt; renting; roasting; romance; Romulan ale; Russia; "Sabotage"; Salcombe, USS; San Francisco Fleet Yards; safety area; saucer; saucer separation; Saurian brandy; Scotch; Scott's grand nanny; Shakespeare, William; Schlerm; shrapnel; shuttlepod; sneeze; snow globe; space lane; spatial torpedo; Spock (prime); stabilizer; star cocktail; Starfleet Academy; Starfleet Charter; Starfleet uniform (mid 2160s); Stargazer, USS; Starship-class; subspace link; Swarm drone; Swarm gun; Swarm ship; Takayama-type shuttlecraft (unnamed 1, and 2; ; survival kit; Teenax; Teenaxi; Teenaxi Delegation; Teenaxi symbols; Thasus; theft; thief; toast; tracking device; train; treaty; turbolift; uncharted space; United Earth Military; United Federation of Planets; universal translator; unnamed plants; vein; VHF; vice admiral; vodka; vokaya; Vulcan; Vulcan; warp coil; welcome mat; Wilbur's species; workbee; wormhole; wristwatch; Yorktown; Yorktown Central Plaza; Yorktown database; Yorktown Headquarters; Yorktown satellites; Yorktown sentry ship; Yorktown tree; Xindi wars

Altamid system; ångström; Federation database; gray mode; Kelvin, USS; Medical shuttle 37

2255; boot camp officer; captain; carrier; corvette; cruiser; derelict vessel; diplomatic vessel; escort vessel; frigate; Ginwald, T.; hospital ship; inventory log; Iowa; maintenance log; mining vessel; missing in action; Murrysville; Pennsylvania; Pine, T.; Riverside Shipyard; science vessel; Scott; scout; Starfleet Administration; Starfleet Communications; Starfleet Diplomatic Corps; Starfleet Engineering; Starfleet Intelligence; Starfleet Medical; Starfleet medical courier; Starfleet Operations; Starfleet Research; Starfleet Science, Starfleet Security; Starfleet Tactical; supply vessel; support vessel; survey vessel; transport vessel; United Earth Military

cellular collapse; critical alert; foreign substance; organ failure

Arts/Culture; Attractions; Bars/Nightclubs; Gardens; Museums; Parks/Nature; Restaurants; sightseeing; zone

Al Kaabi, Faisal; Al Razouk, Salim; Bailey, Rico; Barretto, Kurt; Barth, Heather W.; Benediktson, Dave; Bitbit, Reynaldo; Chedotal, Jordane; Clarke, Leigh; Darbar, Hamza; Davidson, Miranda; Denis, Natasha; de Zoysa, Nuwan; Di Rezze, Kay; Diwadkar, Pranali; Esmaeili, Samira; Fisher, Rob; Gale, Natasha; Garcia, Mayra; Gardiner, Lyall; Gluck, Peter; Goj, Ruslan; Haley, Sean; Haney, Rod; Heimer, Mandy R.; Hermansen, Dan; Huet, Dwight; Ibebuchi, Daniel; Ismail, Mohammed; Issel, Faldela; Jackson, James; Johnston, Sam; Kamel, Rochard; Kankara, Pradeep; Kozak, Scott; Lee, Jenne; Lliev, Peter; Lemay, Eric; Lotosova, Irma; MacAuley, Scott; Mashaba, Patrick; McMaster, Sam; Mitchell, Regan; Molchanov, Maxim; Mussell, Ian; O'Souza, Neville; Pacula, Peter; Riley, Simon; Sacco, Sandrina; Sadekar, Raju; Saleh, Rodolphe; Schiro, Janine; Shumylo, Oksana; Swart, Marius; Thaler, Scott; Thomas, Gareth; Welff, Lindsay; Yosifov, Plamen; Zhelyazko, Monislav

Chekov, Pavel; Enterprise (prime), USS; Enterprise-A (prime), USS; Kirk, James T.; McCoy, Leonard; Scott, Montgomery; Sulu, Hikaru; Spock Prime; Uhura, Nyota

2230; 2263; ambassador; executive officer; second officer; stardate; Enterprise, USS; Enterprise, USS

Andorian herpes; Chapel; Cialis; Deep C-Zar; gangorian clap; Hilts; jumper; Romaine

744; 752; Acamar I; Acamar III; AF006; AF014; Alpha Cygni; Andoria; Andorian; Andorian embassy; Andorian system; Arcturus; argon; bathymetry; BDR-258; BDR-529; Bolarus; Bolarus II; carbon dioxide; Centauri; CGM-852; Cygnus II; Cygnus VII; Cygnus system; exobase; FGNI-592; GHD-258; habitability Index; helium; JL006; JL008; KE091; Kepler-22; magnetosphere; mesosphere; NCV-1248; NCV-1539; NCV-1690; neon; nitrogen; Organian; oxygen; Rigellian; Risian; Sol; student officer; Tellarite; thermosphere; Translink; troposphere; Xindi

